Six eternal matters: incarnation, crucifixion, resurrection, ascension, breathing into disciples essentially, pouring out of the Spirit economically.

Example, rev 13:8 calls the Lord the "Lamb slain from the foundation of the world" heb 9:12 says Christ accomplished an "eternal redemption". If we draw a circle (to represent eternity) and on it label the time of the Lord's incarnation and crucifixion and then also when Abraham and David lived, it is hard to say if Abraham and David are before or after the crucifixion of Christ. This illustrates how the crucifixion is eternal. Thus Paul could say, "I am crucified with Christ."

Just as the Lord does not to incarnate, die, resurrect and ascend for every one of His disciples who believes in the Lord, so also He does not need to breath into and fall upon each one either. Once someone is saved and baptised they receive all these thing automatically. This can be compared to a sandwhich which has bread, turkey, cheese, tomato and lettuce. Although many things are included step by step, when we bite into the sandwhich we receive all of them all at once. Thus while the Lord accomplished many things step by step we receive them all at once.

Concerning the baptism in the holy spirit economically, the Lord said in acts 1:5, "John indeed baptised in water, but you shall be baptised in the holy spirit not many days from now." this was accomplished in two sections, once on the day of pentecost and second in the house of cornelius. An acts 11 Peter recounts what happened in the house cornelius, how the Spirit fell on them just on us at the beginning and how he remembered the lords word in acts 1:5. This directly ties what happened in the house in cornelius to the day of pentecost and the lords word in acta 1:5.

There are three other extraordinary cases which required the laying on of hands for the believers to receive this experience. One was the samaritans, because it would have been hard for the jews to accept them without a clear outward sign, another was Paul/Saul, since he was a lead persecutor and the believers would have needed a clear confirmation. The third was the ephesians who had received an incomplete gospel based on the ministry of john the baptist. Every other normal case in the book of acts did not require the laying on of hands or included an outward display of the baptism of the holy spirit.


