# General subject: The Church, the Ministry, and the Work

The divine building for the accomplishment of God's eternal economy issuing in the reality of the Body of Christ to consummate the New Jerusalem.

The Lord's recovery this year is almost 100 years, beginning with Watchman Nee around 1922. A young man barely over 20 years old. Yet clearly a chosen vessel of God to be one of the ministers of the age today. Through him the Lord raised up the continuation of His recovery work on the earth. The Lord's move is not just with us. When did that recovery begin? To be technical, it began at Paul's time. At the time of AD 60, prior to Paul's departure. Prior to John's departure. While Paul was there ministering and functioning, degradation had already begun to set in. In the AD 60s. With that degradation that began at that time, you may say the Lord's recovery simultaneously began. Now it's 2000 years later. This recovery work of God has been going on for that long.

In Paul's writing, particularly those toward the end of his life, Paul was battling or fighting against all kinds of influences that were coming into the church. Judaistic things, Gnosticism coming from the Greeks, the philosophy of the day, many things of the world began to creep in as well. Against that onslaught Paul was fighting for truth, for life, for the genuine church as as testimony of God. Paul was fighting the fight for God's economy. God's plan, God's design, God's management to work out His eternal intention, His eternal will, according to His eternal counsel. He was fighting for that already. Read 1, 2 Timothy and Titus, you will get a picture of the situation then. It was dire. It was very bad. So bad that at that time all the people left Paul, not just physically but in the sense that they left his ministry. Can you believe that? This greatest of the apostles God raised up to reveal to His people these mysterious things in God's heart and mind. People left him. Even some of his close co-workers dropped out, like Demas who loved the present age. Such a great apostle with revelations no one has ever seen. The mysteries of God which had been closed, hidden from generations, revealed to this person. But he fought the fight. What he wrote were all preserved and today they work half of the New Testament. The heart of the divine revelation in the NT were all written by Paul.

With John, the older apostle, when he received the revelation from God while on Patmos, among the things he wrote there were firstly seven epistles to seven churches. those epistles all bundled together (what the Spirit is speaking to the churches - whatever is spoken to each church is in fact meant for all the churches). If you read the orthodoxy of the church by watchman nee, and interpretation of those seven epistles being a history of the church. Laodicea - proud. But the Lord said I will spit you out. You think you are rich, clothed. You think you see things. But in reality you're poor, naked, blind. Pay the price to buy from me the gold refined by fire, the white garment to cover your nakedness, the eye salve that you may really see. The fate of Laodicea can well be ours if we are not careful. Look in the 20th and 21st centuries.

We have been blessed to be called into the Lord's recovery of today. Not only to be in the Lord's recovery. So blessed to be under this marvellous ministry. Watchman Nee and Witness and Lee, to me, are two separate ministers with their personal ministry, but in my feelings these two ministers are one. A rare thing. For two brothers, two vessels, significant vessels of God, close in age, served with one another to be one. Just think about it. Two leaders, most gifted persons. I did my study, these two brothers were one. Just go back and read the stories of how brother Nee trained and discipled and trained and perfected brother Lee and how brother Lee was one with this man who was only two years older than him. Shoulder to shoulder they served, ministered, fought, for the Lord's testimony and move in China. The Lord's recovery was 1900 years in Europe. Then all of a sudden, no one could believe it, the recovery, that flow, that line stopped in Europe and leapt across the globe to a heathen idolatrous country called China to raise us some young people to carry that burden forward. Think about that. This is not man's work. This is not your recovery or my recovery. This is the Lord's recovery. No man can claim ownership. Here we are in the Lord's recovery, under this ministry of twin brothers. Brother Nee and brother Lee. They were one. It's hard for gifted and capable people to be one. But these two brothers were one in an unbelievable way. Not only were they one, somewhat like Moses and Joshua. Moses began with the deliverance from Egypt but it took Joshua to bring the people into the good land across the Jordan. Those two were one, in illustration. These two brothers were one, therefore their ministry was also one. These are not two separate ministries. It is the two ends of the same one ministry. Brother Nee provided the foundation, the basis, the beginning, the start. Few men would have this capability, to read 1000s of titles and writings of the best of Western Christianity to filter our what is wrong, what is erroneous, select what is right, what is good, what is proper. That furnished the foundation for the Lord's recovery. In truth, and with the help of sister M E Barber, got in touch with the inner life teachers. Then he studied history. He studied the practices. From all that further light came to him. The beginning of the Lord's recovery, the Lord had an urgent work to do to raise them up. In the matter of truth, life, practices. Quickly the political situation changed and brother Lee was sent out to Taiwan for 11 years. Brother Lee did not want to leave. Brother Nee told him, you go, in case something happens there will still be something left. After only 10-11 years our brother was led by the Lord to leave the far east to come to the west, to bring this flow, this stream, this move of the Lord's recovery, that started in the west back to the west, after a 40 years stay in the far east. Early 60s. Well, I'm not here just to talk about history with us all. But brothers, it's helpful to take a quick look back. Just to find out who we are are where we are today. What we are and what we should be doing today. These two brothers one and their minstry is actually one ministry. But I'd like to tell you know, the consummation of the ministry of these two brother was with Witness Lee, not when he came in the 60s, but 30+ years later, the Lord led him to see the high peak of the divine revelation. IN the early 90s the Lord revealed God's New Testament economy to our brother. He ascended higher and higher in his ministry. Our brother began to see things deeper and higher even earlier than that. Through that kind of speaking we arrived even at the New Jerusalem.

If you study the NJ you will find a sign that is not a physical city. That is not heaven. A spiritual sign of a reality as a conclusion, consummation, ultimate expression of what God had wanted in eternity past. A mingling of divinity with humanity. God became man that man may become God. The first God is a raw God, an individual God, a God almighty, who created all things, the Creator, the Genesis 1:1 God, that man my become God, that God is not the raw God anymore. It's the God who had become flesh and through incarnation mingled God with man, and as such a Godman who lived a life on the earth to set up a model of what God wants. He dies that we may be redeemed. But that's not the end. That death is also a life releasing death. He resurrected from the dead. In resurrection he brought man into God, in Himself. Humanity was uplifted into divinity. IN this one person God and man is fully joined. IN ascension this Godman sits at the Father's right hand. There's a man in the glory, ruling the whole universe. Carrying out a heavenly ministry through the cooperation of His Body's ministry on the earth. Then He became the life giving Spirit, regenerated all His chosen elect. He became the First-born Son of God. Not only him, we were all delivered as the sons of God, the many brothers. He also became that wonderful life-giving Spirit, to live within us and beginning a mingling process with us. That process is what we call the organic salvation, renewal, sanctification, transformation and conformation and ultimately glorification. Glorification simply means we're fully one with God, one with His glory, expressing Him. This people that has gone through this process of salvation, are also built up together. Not spiritual giants for a display. God's masterpiece is corporate. That 'God', man may become 'God', that is a corporate God, a processed God. NJ, that consummation, is God. NJ is God. But not the God in Gen. 1. The God in Revelation 22. Not God alone, but God united, mingled and incorporated with man. That's NJ. This process is our Christian life, our church life, to become such a corporate God. In life and nature, not in the Godhead for people to worship. The Lord's recovery is to recover all of this. Is the Lord's recovery just leaving the denominations? Breaking bread in a proper way? Getting immersed in our baptism? In the early days in China some mistook the Lord's recovery to be some of these things. The Lord's recovery is recover something in the divine and mystical realm, something inward, a reality. Brother Lee asked the Lord one day what He wants him to minister on and he became burdened to minister on the Body of Christ, but specifically the reality of the Body, and more, the living of the Body of Christ. With that as a burden he ministered until the end of his life. The divine and mystical realm. The Godman living. The organic salvation of God. The blending of the Body of Christ. The New Jerusalem. And on and on. Dear brothers, brother Lee was in another realm.

My point is, today, in the Lord's recovery, this is our burden. The burden of our brothers is our burden today. Brother Lee, in 1994, that year, he released, "God became man that man may become God". Later, the Practical Points Concerning Blending. A lot of speaking concerning his burden. We know the church is His Body, but we know it doctrinally. His burden was this, he asked himself the question, or the Lord asked him, as I look there are 1500-1600 churches, 10-100,000s saints. The LR is seemingly go on and spreading. We were just in Russia. A real cause for encouragement. While I was in this encouragement I feel deeply burdened by the Lord. Is this all? Are you happy with this? So many local churches, the work is spreading. Are you happy with this? Is this what I want? He began to realise, no. No. Where is the reality of the Body? We talk about the Body. Where is the reality? Brother Lee's conclusion was, very little reality. Inward reality. The local churches are but the procedure. I'm afraid, I'm concerned, I may be disappointing some of you, where the local ground was uplifted to the uttermost. We would live and die and stay right here till Jesus comes. The ground of locality. Brother Lee said the local churches can only be the outward framework. The inward reality. Where is the inward reality. We must be in the church life. But we must realise that is a procedure that will guide us, afford us the situation or environment to gain this reality of the Body of Christ. Maybe not all of us, maybe only some of us. That reality, is Zion. Where-as the church life is Jerusalem. But every Jerusalem needs Zion, a high peek. Zion is the strength, the power, the glory, the beauty of Jerusalem. That reality is composed of the true overcomes, collectively. Blending - a practice that will lead to the reality of the Body of Christ. Not come together to say hi and shake hands and break bread together. Blending is a corporate living of a people who live a mingling life, a life that is continuously mingled with the Triune God. A life in resurrection, a life not natural, under the cross, a life not in the flesh, in the self, in our natural disposition. A life of  Godman, a life like Christ. I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live. But it's not me, it's Christ. So its a life that's us and Christ living together that requires us to deny our selves , our natural life. We live the same life, the same living. That living constitutes, in a corporate way, the reality of the Body of Christ. The burden is not the just know or say these things. These things could just be doctrine to us. That's why I mentioned Laodicea. I once went to a brethren bookstore. They had books stacked to the ceiling. I don't think there's any other group who have put out so many books like them. This little old lady was very proud. They had it. The best, the highest. The light in those years  was marvellous. That's what brother Nee and Lee told us. But alas, the brethren has become a denomination. Split up into a 1000 branches. Some brethren assemblies are not different than one of these charismatic groups. That's Laodicea. Dear brothers, I like to tell myself, and warn myself, don't think just because we have all these riches we are okay. By 1995 brother Lee had released all the life studies. So many things we have received. The question is, are we Philadelphia or Laodicea. Brother Lee dies but left us with a burden. A clear burden. And I would like to say, today in the recovery, we have no other burden, but to continue to labour along the line of that burden until there is an arrival. Until at least a part of the recovery arrives at that reality. Until there is such a corporate living of this life. Until we reach Zion. Brothers, we must ascend. We must be calibrated. We must get into this same feeling.

**I. "I ask you to render to this work the highest cooperation. When I say 'the highest cooperation', I mean that you must dive into these things, as I did, day and night. Second, you have to experience them. Third, you have to live a God-man life. Fourth, you have to be an overcomer to keep every principle of the Body."**

"Dive into these things" - Just because it's in the page in the book in our book room, doesn't mean it's our reality yet. How much do I have the reality? Or do I just have the truths, the doctrines, the points. What about my life?

"You have to experience them" - our great need after seeing these things is to experience them. No wonder Paul prayed those two prayers, one to see, on the experience what he saw. In both prayers Paul prayed according to the riches of the Father's glory. Pursue experience. We all need this kind of prayer. Lord, I want to experience these things, point by point. I want to ascend level by level. Higher and higher. Deeper and deeper. Not just to know. I want to experience.

"Live a Godman life" - a habitual living.

"Be an overcomer to keep very principle of the Body" - be an overcomer. To keep the principles of the Body. Let this word principle not just be a checklist. You have to start with the beginning - dive in, experience, live. Loving one another is a commandment but this is not a point on a checklist. You have to live in a certain way. The divine Attributes of God has to become our personal human virtues. Love is the top virtue of all the virtues. We need to become love, live love.

In the 1930s, brother Lee was burdened for the assembly life, the church life. They put out, "the normal Christian church life". One day I came upon this. Brother Lee talked about the ground of the church, the authority of the Spirit, the meetings of the church, the apostleship. At the end one chapter put everything together in perspective. This book became popular among seeking Christians.  In that chapter, all the things, the church, the ministry and the work found their rightful place. That place is a realm, a reality. That place is the Body of Christ. Today, the Body of Christ occupies such a role, that everything that we do, all our living, all our services, our entire Christian life, our church life, our church service, our gospel work, shepherding, meeting life, everything related to our existence, must be governed by the Body and its principles. This is basically the point.

**II. The laws**

The laws regulate your body - heart, lungs, liver, pancreas, all the systems of your body, Cardiovascular, digestive, all operate according to an unseen law. Actually the whole Christian life is a lawful life, in the terms of scientific laws, the law of the Spirit of life. There are laws that operate in the church, in the body. There are laws, if we know and keep, that we live not by checklist, we will be saved.

**III. Body the governing law**

Everything is about the Body, for the Body. If there's no such a reality, there is no church really, no ministry, no work, up to the standard God wants.

**IV. Have a vision and do the work of the Lord's recovery**

