Ray: This is the Lord's burden now. May the Lord give us all a hunger to get into what the Lord wants to do today.

# Message One - The Body and the Churches

The title: The diving building for the accomplishment of God's eternal economy issuing in the reality of the Body of Christ to consummate the New Jerusalem.

- Divine building
- God's eternal economy
- The reality of the body of Christ
- New Jerusalem

All big words. You have heard these terms repeated over and over again. I know and believe you know, to hear about these terms is one thing. To really enter into the reality of these things is another thing. So our God is very patient with us. He knows that our apprehension is low. And He uses many occasions to speak and re-speak these things to us until we can get it and enter into them. I consider this conference in the same way. We will have six messages to dive into the content of this subject. I hope, just because you have heard these terms and could repeat them, you should not be content with that. You need to see more. You need to enter into it more. You need to experience it. These four matters are all related. The divine building is according to God's economy, which is His plan to dispense Himself into His chosen people to bring forth an organism, the Body of Christ. We are not talking about a general Body of Christ but of the reality. In all genuineness. The real thing. That Body of Christ will consummate in the New Jerusalem.

For example, the divine building. Not only us talk about the building. Many Christians, among church leaders and pastors. They like this term, build the church. But their understanding of the building of the church is far far from the thought of building revealed in the Word of God. What God has in mind is not building their denomination. They are talking about the organisation, the arrangement. If he is a good organiser he can probably build up a big mega church of 5000 members. We see it. When the Lord Jesus says I will build my church, what does he mean? Does He mean to organise, arrange something. After He spoke that word, until His death, you didn't see anything He built. No Bible schools, no church buildings. Do you think Jesus spoke that word in vain? Until His death nothing happened. He feed the 5000. Performed many miracles. But at the time of the cross many left him. Even His own disciples, some of them backslid. Even Peter just slipped back to his own profession until the Lord appeared to him at the seashore to restore him. After the Lord's earthly ministry, He only had 120 disciples remaining. Not a very successful work to speak of. The Son of God came to work on the earth for 3.5 years and only produced 120 disciples? What is this? You think you could have done better than that. You could have produced a couple hundred to follow you. When Jesus said "to build my church" it's not something common like Christians think. Unless a grain a wheat falls into the earth and dies it abides alone, but if it dies it bears much fruit. We are the many grains, produced from that original grain, that unique grain that was the Lord Jesus. Although the Lord Jesus did not erect any kind of physical building, make any kind of organisational structure. But He died and in His resurrection He released His divine life into thousands, tens of thousands, that became the many grains. Fifty days after His resurrection, all of a sudden He came back as the consummated Spirit upon the 120 disciples. They were filled with that Spirit within and without A word was spoken by the apostle Peter. On one day 3000 new ones were added to the church in Jerusalem. The church was mentioned, not during Christ's life on the earth. It was after His death and resurrection. He was that grain that fell into the earth and died. He produced the many grains who are exactly His reproduction. These become the constituents of the church. That is the fulfillment of the Lord's word in Matthew 16. That was just the beginning. Through the last 2000 years that building is still being fulfilled.

This matter of the divine building - we should not be so superficial. Think I can organise a group of people in a religious way to hold service to God. Far from it. In 1940 in Shanghai, when Witness Lee was taking a walk with Watchman Nee, brother Watchman Nee held brother Lee's hand and said, brother Witness, in my hand today is the blueprint of the church. In the last 2000 years how many Christians were able to say what he said on that day. He said I have the blueprint of the building of the church in my hand. Brother Lee asked what is this blueprint? Briefly, he said this blueprint consists of three aspects:

1. Must be with one material, a unique material, with Christ who is everything to us, this Christ who is all to us. He is the unique material.
2. Must be expressed practically on the earth. It cannot be theoretical, up in the air. It has to be practical, on the earth, in the localities
3. Must be carried out in coordination.

Three very crucial matters. These are the ingredients of the blueprint of the building of the church brother Nee saw. Brother Lee took this blueprint, went to the north and carried out this blueprint. He brought in a revival. When we talk about the building of the church, it's altogether different from what we hear and understand from today's Christianity. This matter of the church was not revealed to God's children after the departure of the early apostles. Not until the early 1800s. The church history, after the apostles passed away, Constantine brough in Christianity and established the Papal system, over the next 1000 years brought the church into darkness. From 6th century to 16th century. God raised up Martin Luther to recover the truth of justification by faith. Others. Matters of living a spiritual life and so forth. But nothing of the church was touched. Martin Luther did not touch the church. Even Madam Guyon, who was so spiritual, did not bring us to the matter of the church. Not until the raising up of the British Brethren, particularly Nelson Darby, the Lord began to reveal the matter of the church. All the recoveries are all for the church. All those riches that were recovered were not for themselves. Not to produce spiritual persons. They were for the church. When the brethren were raised up it was time for the church to be brought forth. Austin Sparks from London was considered the most spiritual person who stood on the shoulders of the British brethren and expounded much on the church and especially on the church as the body of Christ. You have to realise where we are today. After the apostles departed. After Paul wrote all those epistles, Ephesians, Colossians, 1 Corinthians. Revealing great revelation concerning the church. For the next 1800 years the matter of the church was buried, ignored. By God's mercy the matter of the church was unveiled, revealed again. When God came to China, He gained this young man Watchman Nee who had the capacity to peruse and read all the volumes of books put out by the brethren. He began his ministry not only to help people to know the matter of salvation, but to practice the church life. Eventually in the last ten years of his life before imprisonment his burden was on the Body of Christ. This was one hundred years ago. He raised up the first lord's Table in 1922. After it was raised up, until his death, 50 years passed by. His co-worker Witness Lee, who was absolutely 100% one with him. Not just a helper. A co-worker, speaking the same thing. After brother Nee died, Brother Lee continued for another 25 years. From 1997 to today is another 25 years without brother Nee or Lee. Just us. Why is the Lord still keeping us, up till today? Usually, if you look back in church history, you could hardly find a corporate group of Christians who stayed together for such a long time. Even the British brethren were only together for about 25 years. The Lord in His recovery has kept us till today entering into the 100th year. Many times I ask the Lord why? The recovery should have been disbanded after brother Lee died. But instead the Lord's recovery has been kept together. You look today. Just on this conference, brothers from NZ, from Australia, from Myanmar, US, many island countries as well. Able to blend together to remain under the same ministry together. This is unprecedented. Every time I think about this I worship the Lord ..I thank the Lord I am in the Lord's recovery today. If brother Nee would have seen what is happening today he would e rejoicing before the Lord. In 1934 when he gave the word, What are We? He went through a short history. At the end he said we are just a voice in the wilderness. We are not another movement in Christianity. He sid, there were others who also saw the same thing. In America, Britain, France, Africa. That was 1934, 88 years ago. Toay the Lord's recovery has spread to all six continents on the earth. 100s of 1000s of saints has seen this. The Lord has kept us till this day for a definite purpose. For the carrying out of this building work. To bring forth that reality of the Body of Christ. 

I don't know about you. This is more than clear to me why we are still here today. The Lord did not allow us to be disbanded. We are following the one ministry carrying out the same one work. We are all in one body. This is not a joke. This is serous. This is not just "great", this has an eternal weight. Only God knows what is actually happening. This matter of the church is only within the last 200 years. We should not assume this is something that has been going on for ages. We are here carrying out the building from the blueprint for 81 years. Lord, thank you you have kept us till this day. we want to say. this is what will end this age.

Although the matter of building has only been recovered in the last 200 years. But it was first touched by God. Genesis 2. God said to Adam, it is not good for you to be alone. He needed a helpmeet and took a rib and built that rib into a woman, who became his counterpart. That was the first time the word built was used, by God. God did a work of building. Eve was a building. Not just a creation. God did not create Eve as He created Adam. He built Eve. In the OT God told Moses to build the tabernacle. Some time later God charged David with the help of Solomon to built the temple. Then a 1000 years later, when Jesus came to the earth, it was God incarnate who made such a statement, "I will build my church." After Christ, the apostles spoke, especially Paul, about the building of the church. At the end of the Bible John saw in Revelation a building, a completed building, the New Jerusalem. The whole Bible is a record of the divine building.

The building isn't a physical structure. It is related to the church, the body of Christ. That's why we have this first message. On the Body and the Churches. If we want to learn about the building, we need to see what the body is and what the churches are. Yesterday I was considering this word building. In Chinese in the Union Bible when the word building is used, Chinese translated it as edifying. This tells you many bible translators had no idea of building. They had the idea of edifying. The concept of building was not there. God is not trying to edify you. He is carrying out a work of building. This building is related to the church. He is not building you or me as an individual. He is building a corporate entity, the church, the body of Christ.

If you don't understand what the body and the churches are, you will have no idea what the divine building is about

## I. The basic principle of the churches is the Body

Every thing we do should be based on a principle. when you go to the gym, what is the principle of doing exercise? To better your health. You don't do it for the sake of exercise. If your health is not improving then something is wrong. The principle of your exercise, the maintenance of your health. Otherwise all your motions mean nothing. What is the principle of our practise of the church life.

In the practice of the church life do we have the Body as the principle? You say we have one church in one system, not part of any denominational system. We break the bread every week. We don't have pews or a pastoral system. Everything is correct. But if you don't have the principle of the Body, all you have left is a corpse. 

## II. The essential, crystallized significance of the Body of Christ is that the Triune God is constituted with His chosen and redeemed people to become a constituted entity; unless we see this crystallized significance of the Body of Christ, there is no way to carry out
what we are trying to do in the church today

What is your understanding of "body"? Some say it's a figure of speech, "the church which is like a body." Paul didn't say that. The church *is* His Body. Not just a figure of the church. The church actually is the Body of Christ.

Not just a Body. The Body of Christ. The Body of a Person. With a Head. Look at our human bodies. Is my body different from my head? If this body is the body of James Lee, every part of this body must also be James Lee. The church as the Body of Christ must be constituted with the element of Christ. The first item of the blueprint is the unique material - Christ. It cannot be anything else. It cannot be your gifts, ability, status. It can only be Christ. Otherwise it will be a monster. If this church is of Christ it must be constituted with Christ. The Triune God must be constituted with us.

Eph. 4:4-6, Paul says one body, one spirit. one Lord. One faith. one hope, one baptism. one God. In those three verses we see seven items. Four of those items are persons. The Father, the Lord, the Spirit the Body. The four persons are mingled together through the one faith, an organic union, and through the one baptism and giving us one hope, the hope of glory. These seven items reveal what the Body is. These four parties mingled together though one faith and baptism leading to one hope of glory. This is the Body of Christ.

Eph 1, the Father chose us, the Son redeemed us, the Spirit sealed us. We are shown how the Body is constituted by the Triune God. Being worked into the believers.

## III. The Body of Christ is not a matter of being universal or local but of the outward framework and the inward element.

I had the thought that anything local is the church, anything extra-local is universal. That is the concept of our organisational point of view. Actually the church is the outward framework and the body is the inward element. Our human body has a head, hand, legs, etc. But is this me? This is what you recognise, what you can see. But the genuine me is not on the face, on the body. There are a lot things inside. There is the heart, the circulation. What defines a person is not how they appear. When they die the outward things may remain for a while but inside is gone. The life is gone. The church as the Body of Christ is like this. The church is what you can see. The Body is the inner element. The church should not just have an outward framework without an inner element.

### A. believers outward framework, Triune God inner element

Only in the Lord's recovery talk so much about the Divine Trinity. Not in a theological way, academic way, but we speak about the Triune God all the time. Some of the saints may be bothered. Why are we so complicated? Can you make it simpler for us? Why do you talk about the Father, Son and Spirit? Dear saints, we are not trying to play words. We are not trying to show how smart we are. I am not a theologian. I am jut a brother who loves the Lord. But if you read the Bible, the Bible is full of the Divine Trinity. Even when the Lord Jesus was on the earth. How many times He talked about the Father or the Spirit. He was God Himself, incarnated. Why did He have to talk about the Father so much? Wasn't He the Father? He was the Father. Yet He also told people I am going to the Father. I will send another One the Spirit of Reality. It seems like you're saying as you go you'll come back again. It seems like you're saying you're that Spirit of Reality. Yes, I ill be that Spirit o reality but I will come back as another form. It's still me, but yet not the same. If you were Peter or John you would have been bothered. Why was He being so complicated? Just say you're going to heaven and coming back. Anyway, you can see, it's not just Witness Lee that talks about the Trinity. Jesus took the lead to talk so much to talk about the Trinity of which He was a part. It's through this Divine Trinity God can work Himself into man to be joined to man. If God is only in the heavens our relationship with him would be so objective. But now God became a man to accomplish what God has willed and planned. Then he returned as the Spirit able to enter into us. As God alone who dwells in unapproachable light, He cannot enter into us. We cannot touch the 5000 volt electricity. But the transformers enable the electrify to reach our home. The Spirit makes God reachable and enjoyable to us. Our seeing the divine trinity is crucial to seeing and understanding the body of Christ. if there is no enjoyment of the divine trinity there will be no experience of the body of Christ.

I have the Father as my source, the Son as my element being formed in me, and the Spirit right here with me. I am thoroughly being mingled with the Divine Trinity to result in the Body of Christ. IF we don't have this kind of experience I don't think the Body of Christ can be brought forth.

"In that day you will know that I am in my father and I am in you and you in me" - how complicated, but this is how the body will be brought forth. What is this? This is the Body of Christ.

## IV. The Body if the intrinsic significance of the church

We have to see that the Body is the intrinsic significance of the church

## V. The unique Body of Christ is expressed in many localities as the local churches

This is something quite abstract. But it is a fact. This Body must be expressed in localities in churches. Paul said the letter I gave to Colossae needs to be read in Laodicea as well. There were no texts, emails. For one church to read a letter from another church would take days for a carrier to bring it. Paul didn't care about the inconvenience. You churches must enter into the same thing. It is not only to you, it is to the churches.

In Rev. 1, seven churches in Asia. Those seven epistles were bound together and sent to each church. What Pergamos was reading was not only the letter to them but to the other churches as well. In apostle Paul's days there was such a practice. Those local churches have fellowship with one another. No distinction, no separation. We have all the conveniences. So easily connected. Are we taking full advantaged to be blended, to be connected. Saints, we may take these outward situations for granted, but we are missing the endeavouring to enter into the reality of the body. Once a year we may say hello to one another, in the mean time you do your thing I do mine. That is degradation. That is far from what God intended. Every church must bear the characteristic of the one body.

## VI. We stand on the ground of the church because of the Body

If the oneness is broken the testimony of the church is broken down.

Not on the right ground only, on the ground of oneness.

## VII. The Lord needs the reality of the Body to be expressed in the local churches

Brothers and sisters, are we any different? Is my church different from Hamilton, Sydney? Location-wise we are different, but in essence we are the same. We all have a trait of Christ within us. It doesn't matter what race, language. We are one Body. I'm just so encouraged seeing the saints in Myanmar. We are all in one Body. Different environment, language. The all-inclusive Christ has made us the same.

## VIII. Knowing the Body changes our church life.

The truth has not changed but our seeing of this vision has been much upgraded. What the Lord is building is not just the church in your locality. He is building the Body universally. If you know the Body it will change your church life.

When you come to the local churches, the restrictions are even stronger than in the denominations. We are in one body. You cannot just do things freely under the cloak of your local church. You are a part of the Body. Whatever you do or decide, you need to consider the other churches. We all belong to the same body. We are not false teeth. False teeth look like real teeth but they have no relationship to you body. At night you can take them out. We don't want our church to be like fake teeth.

Without the Body the churches are dead, lifeless. Without the churches the Body is not practical.