# Message 4 - The prerequisites of the believers' building up in the church, the Body of Christ

I came to this meeting encouraged by the Lord by two things. Here and there on the earth are still a small number of people in different countries and continents and age groups, backgrounds, races, that are loving seekers of the Lord. This is not a small thing. The number may not be great. They may be unknown. It's not even a blip on the radar. Yet, just like in the story of Elijah, when he was persecuted by the king and ended up in a cave, there God appeared to encourage him. God did not come in lightning or thunder, fire. God came in a still small voice. If you read that story and the footnotes on the still small voice, it says that this still small voice is a principle of how God would speak to man in the NT. In the OT it is fire and thunder, just like when the children of Israel were at Horeb. They couldn't even get close. It was a dangerous place. A horrifying place. God did not come to Elijah that way, He came in a still small voice. Much of the time this is how the Lord would speak to us. Nothing great, nothing loud, nothing so grand. Just a small voice. Yet it is God, speaking to you and I. There God says, you are here, hopeless and in despair, not just about your own life but about this whole nation. This apostate idolatrous nation. But I have reserved for myself 7000 who have not bowed the knee to Baal. That became a great encouragement to Elijah. In the same way I am so encouraged tonight. As we look across the earth today, it is a terrible place. It is fallen, dark, filled with violence and lawlessness. Morally decadent. I n every way this earth has become a place that is anti-God. Permeated by the work of God's enemy with the evil spirits and demons, using the fallen man as an instrument. Yet, in this sorrowful situation, discouraging. Even the religious department of the world you would feel just as discouraged. Where are God's people? Where are His true seekers? Where is the church? Where is God's building? The Body? But the Lord would come to us and encourage us that He still has His own people He has preserved for Himself. I don't know how many. The earth's population is over 7 billion people. How many of these 7 billion? But there are those. Only the Lord Himself knows. At least I can say in this conference looking at you, here and there. Not many of us are well born, not many of us are of the higher class, not many are wealthy or rich. We are just the common folk. Just people. Somehow here and there God has gathered His people, to love Him to seek Him, to follow Him. To take the narrow way, not the broad way. The narrow gate that leads to life. There are those who would want to take that way and who are taking that way. The Lord's recovery is a narrow way, a constricted way. It is not an easy way. Yet there are those who would take that way, to follow the Lord and who would care for God's purpose, God's hearts desire. Maybe brother James talked about David the Kind who had the heart to build God a house, which God would not have David built. God said let me do something for you first. But the principle here is we should have the heart to build God's heart. It's not us who can build it. It is God building Himself into us first, in grace.

I heard in Myanmar there are around 5000 saints. That's a small number in that country. I like to tell you, it's not strictly the number God is after. Even if we have a million it is a small drop in the bucket against 7 billion. It's not the size per se, it's the condition. It's the spiritual reality that these people possess. It's whether these people really comprise the testimony of Jesus. Whether these people gatehred here and there are really living Christ and are being built up as a house for God's dwelling. To be build up as a Body for Christ's expression. It's the reality that counts. So here we are in the small recovery of the Lord. I pray and we all need to, on the one hand that the Lord would grant us increase. We do need the increase and use smallness as our convenient excuse. We need to preach the gospel, the high gospel. On the other hand no matter how much increase we gain we will still be in the principle of a remnant. After 70 years of captivity when God raised up Cyrus to all of a sudden issue a proclamation that these people should go back, only a small number returned. 70 years is at least two generations of Jews, of Israel people in Babylon. A small number went back, started with Ezra and then Nehemiah. Hence the word 'remnant'. In the Lord's recovery today we are here as a remnant, against a backdrop of captivity, of desolation, of degradation. God must still have a temple and a city and a land that is occupied by His own people before He could come the first time, 400 years after the return. Today similarly there has to be a remnant who would come back to the proper ground, the ground of that land, of that city, Jerusalem, the ground of that temple, God's habitation. Standing on that ground they would do the work of re-building what has been broken down. To re-build. That is the principle of a recovery. To recovery God's testimony on the earth. If we look at our condition it's often not that good, but here we are, back in the land. The work of this building is not finished. If I may say so, all the signs on the earth today, geopolitically, in almost everyway, pointing to the end times. In other words, the Lord's coming is near. But it is not only the fulfillment of various prophesies that will bring the Lord back. There must be a part of the Lord's Body that is built up. There must be the reality of the Body of Christ on the earth somewhere. There must be the adorned and prepared Bride that the Lord can come back to as the Bridegroom. There must be a place where there is the reality, the substance of the kingdom of the heavens. There must be an overcoming army that will ride and fight with the Word of God, Christ, to defeat His enemy. So, you see, this is why we are here. This is the view. This burden of the building of God, the building of God's house, is a great great thing.

Today, when we talk about the building of God's habitation, the building up of the Body. The word used is 'building'. Neither of these things are something physical, material, outward. This building of God is divine. It's mystical. It's organic. It's the Triune God mingled with the Tripartite man. To become an entity, a constitution. A spiritual building that is living. So you cannot see this building just with your physical eyes. You have to have spiritual eyes to see it. Even if human beings cannot see it. Surely Satan and the evil powers and the principalities, they see it. Because they are in that realm. So we're here today in the church life. You in NZ, I in America. Those saints in Myanmar. And other saints from various countries. We are in different places. Are backgrounds are different. Different races, cultures. But we're here, one in Christ. With a common vision and a common commission.

This constitution is not individualistic. Not just one person. It must be many people. In fact, all the people. Look at a physical building. It is the fitting together of many materials. Many kinds. It is not a pile of materials on a construction site. It is materials fitly framed together. Eph.2 at the end is all about the building we are talking about here. 20-22. Being built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the corner stone in whom all the building (every pat of the building, the totality) being fitted together (you have to study the Greek to know the meaning), framed together in a most appropriate way according to a plan, a pre-designed plan. God is the Architect. The whole building is built up o the foundation of the apostles and prophets, meaning the revelation they have received from God. Chris is the corner stone and the foundation stone and one day the top stone. In fact Christ Jesus is every part of this building. All the building fitted together is growing. This is organic. A building doesn't grow. This is an organism, therefore it grows. Int a holy temple in the Lord , n whom you also, (we who are dispersed into different parts of the earth) are being built together into a dwelling place, a habitation of God in spirit. It occurs in spirit. To be built up as part of this building we have to be in spirit It's not taking place in our mind, in our thoughts. Although we are still limited by time and space and have local churches. That part is visible. But the real thing, that will last until the New Jerusalem, is invisible. It is practical, experiential. This is what we are doing. Just like Noah spending 300 years doing one thing, to build up that Ark. Today, in the local churches, we're doing the same thing, in principle. To build Christ as an Ark for a testimony of all those people in that time only eight souls were saved. Today we're in this building work. When I think about this I am encouraged that there are saints. I hope tonight's word will stay with you. This is the meaning of your life. This is the purpose of your existence. I saw this, not fully, but initially, when I was 17 or 18. The Lord captured me, and possessed me. Ruined me for anything else but this. Now it is many years later. Many decades later. I'd like to tell you young people. Every day I give the Lord thanks that He gained me when I was at such a young age, that he kept me through all these decades, to still be on this narrow way. Part of His remnant. I hope you would do the same. You would give your life and everything your future, to the Lord for this. One day everything will burn. Only this reality will remain.

Brother Lee, in 1960, saw this matter of God's building. Maybe '59. He started to give messages on Gods building. He saw that the NJ is not a physical city. The NJ is not heaven that Christianity tells us we will go to when we die. No. No. NJ is a sign in the book of revelation, signifying a reality. That is, this divine-human entity in its consummate form. He also saw, in John 14, that the Father's house is not some grand gold covered mansion in the sky that the Lord is spending 2000 years to build. No, that Father's house is simply His own Body. God building Himself into man and man into God. Incorporation. He had the boldness after having seen that to strongly teach that NJ is not such a thing. In one fell swoop he took away heaven from the Christians. You have no where to go after you die, how about that? Not a physical place with pearly gates and golden streets. Some in this country talk about how they're going to play golf up there. Some of these sports car drivers are going to do spins along the river on the street. What is this? Modern day superstition. Making things up in the principles of fables and fairy tales. He began to speak on the building of God. I would challenge some of you young people to study the NJ with the help of the ministry. At that time he wrote a lot of hymns. Today we have up to ten hymns on the NJ and the building. Altogether 13 hymns under the sections 'the church, her building'. I like the young people especially to go back and not only sing these hymns but pray over these hymns, study these hymns. This matter of the building is a great matter. Let me get into this message now.

This material came from a book, The Secret of God's Organic Salvation, 1986. Chapter four, the secret of building. Br Lee covered all the sections of organic salvation and included this section of building as part of organic salvation. Eventually what Noah built saved him, rescued him from that age. Ushered him into a brand new age. Today we are doing the same thing. We are building our ark today, in the church life. These prerequisites that we must fulfil came out of the outline from that message. Somewhat like principles or laws. Not like the Mosaic law, part of the law of life in the NT. If we keep and adhere to, we can carry on this building work. But if you are careless about these prerequisites, you will find the building work being frustrated So it is up to every saint to take care of these prerequisites in our daily church life.

1. not be scattered, not be individual, not be independent
2. I am now baptised into one body with so many members and God has placed me in the body, who am I to complain? Blended, mixed together. If you're not ready to be blended, then you're not fulfilling this prerequisite.
3. Being in harmony with others. Symphonic harmony. so we can pray in one accord. i do have a prayer all the time. Lord, keep me from being a problem in your recovery. Keep me from being a factor of disturbance in your recovery. I would like to learn to take the cross. Harmony s more than oneness. Something even deeper. Lord, keep me always in a condition of harmony with the brothers and Jesus
4. Remain in God who is Oneness itself. The real oneness in this universe is God Himself. The world divides us. Only God will bring us together and unite us. Let us remain in the glory. Not having our own expression but only His.

## V. We must keep the oneness of the Spirit diligently

Endeavour to keep the oneness. It's an exercise. How do you keep the oneness of the spirit? By keeping yourself in the Spirit. Don't stay in your mind, in your thoughts, your ideology, your concepts. This will divide us. The Spirit is what will make us one.

We do have a level of oneness, but this oneness is still in the process of being perfected. Let us give the Lord the way to perfect us.

## VI. We must be in the common fellowship of the enjoyment of Christ as the believers’ common portion for the keeping of the oneness of the Body to witness that Christ is neither divisible nor divided
The Corinthians used perfect persons and uplifted them and separated and denominated themselves according to these names. These are all wrong. Christ is not divisible nor divided.

Corinth left the focus of the unique Christ as their common portion, they wouldn't have been divided. It is Christ plus this or that. Just focus on Christ and don't be carried away by other things.

## VII. We must have the common fellowship in the spirit and have the common thinking and common love in one spirit, with one soul, and on one common standing for the testimony of the oneness of the Body of Christ
Only one fellowship in the universe. The fellowship with the Father, Son and Spirit. Common participation. Mutual sharing of something in common.

Think the same thing, think the one thing. Our mind is critically imporant in this. We have to stand together in one spirit and strive together with one soul. if I think the same thing as you we are one. What is the one thing? The subjective experience of Christ.

## VIII. We must live and walk by the Spirit (Gal. 5:16, 25) and walk according to the mingled spirit (Rom. 8:4), setting our mind on the mingled spirit (v. 6) and being indwelt by the pneumatic Christ as the Spirit who imparts life within us for us to put to death the practices of the body

I know saints who are inwardly without peace. Real inner peace, which the whole earth is hungry for. There is no world peace is there is no personal peace. Here's the secret to inner peace. That the God of peace would rule, that we would be led by the Spirit. If you set your mind on the flesh its death. Death is a sensation, not just condition. You feel something is dead, dark, wrong. Something is knotted up. Turn away from these things. Turn to the spirit and have life. Receive life. It's a warning.

## IX. We must be conformed to the death of Christ to have the self, natural man, flesh, distorted disposition, peculiarities, personal preferences and tastes, etc., all crucified with Christ by the power of the resurrection of Christ

Distorted disposition. As we age we will find that we are really distorted persons. I am really peculiar. The older I get the more I become strange. Even I realise it now. Man, you are so strange. You are so strange, you are peculiar. You say, well I don't bother people. It bothers a lot of people. It bothers my wife. Even these things that may not be sinful or worldly. These things hinder our relationship, the building of God. I speak now to the middle age and older saints. We need to die to our disposition and opinion. We have so strong opinions we would not give it up no matter what. How can the building work go on? You cannot be built up with that person because of your opinion, because of your disposition. We need transformation. We need the Lord's mercy.

Even the Lord Jesus had to deny Himself so He could be one with the Father, to be harmonious with the Father and His will.

I find this is the biggest lesson - how to be conformed to the mold of Christ death. Easier said than done. So many things I do are still not this way. It's me. I didnt die. I'm very active. I'm alive. I'm living by myself and for myself. I don't live by Christ. I say it. I can also quote Gal.2:20. Well, that's just a slogan. In actuality I'm very alive. We need to go on.

## X. We must magnify Christ through living Him by the bountiful supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ

Don't think this is impossible. If Paul can, we can.

Every day we should depend on the bountiful supply of the Spirit. Paul was in a prison, in a dungeon, locked up in the stocks. Not a long time before he was martyred. In that situation he magnified Christ. It was by the bountiful supply that enabled him to magnify Christ.

## XI. We must minister Christ, dispensing Him to all whom we contact
Let us in our church life do this. Redeem the opportunities to minister something of Christ to others. To the brother to your left, the brother to your right. The sister in the top bunk. Minister something of Christ. Actually this kind of ministry is the building work.

## XII. We must discern the spirit, which is of power, love, and sobermindedness, from the soul

The last point is actually the most essential point. It is that we should exercise our spirit. The key to the whole organic salvation of God is the two spirits. The key is likewise these two spirits. The secret to building. I hope that we would use our spirit more.



I especially these days want to encourage and stir up all of us to pray together more. I am talking about praying in small groups.

With your companions. One or two companions. In twos and threes. To come together to pray .To exercise the spirit together. This pray is the secret. The spirit is the key but prayer is the secret. Praying together with others is the greater secret. Nothing brings us into one accord like prayer. They continued steadfastly in one accord and prayer. I think this is a very practical thing. If you have not done it, find your prayer companion to pray. In your small group, home meeting, first be saints praying together. Let all the doings and activities come out of much and thorough prayer. By this prayer we become blended together and built up. Jude says this. v20, building up yourselves upon your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Spirit.

