The Apostles' Relationship with the Churches and Their Perfecting of the Saints
CWWL, 1988, vol. 3
 
> **Question**: Since the word apostle means “a sent one,” everyone who is sent by God is an apostle. However, in the practice of the Lord’s recovery, are there actually any apostles? If so, is there a “head apostle” among the apostles?
>
> **Answer**: Today in the Lord’s recovery we can say with certainty that there are apostles, and among them there are leading apostles; however, there is absolutely no “head apostle.” Acts 1 through 12 shows that the group of apostles that ministered in the Jewish land was clearly under Peter’s leadership (Gal. 2:7b), and Acts 13 through 28 shows that another group of apostles, who ministered in the Gentile lands, was under Paul’s leadership (Gal. 2:7a). Thus, in Acts and the Epistles we see that Peter and Paul were the leading ones in the Jewish and the Gentile lands, respectively. However, we do not see them send anyone to work in any place. All the workers that went out were sent by the Holy Spirit. Acts 13:4, which says that Barnabas and Paul, “having been sent out by the Holy Spirit,” went from Antioch to the Gentile lands, shows that the authority to send out workers is not [177] with the leading apostles but with Christ the Head as the Holy Spirit.
>
> In the four Gospels the leading one was the living person of the Lord Jesus; no matter what He charged the disciples to do or where He sent them, they simply followed. However, in Acts we cannot find anyone who went out to work as a result of being sent by the apostles. Certainly, Paul charged a few young brothers who were close to him, including Timothy and Titus, to go to certain places to do certain things (1 Cor. 4:17; Titus 1:5; 2 Tim. 4:9; Titus 3:12). However, they were serving with and helping the apostle Paul very closely; thus, Paul could send them to do certain things. We may consider another example in 1 Corinthians 16:12, which says, “Concerning our brother Apollos, I urged him many times to come to you with the brothers; yet it was not at all his desire to come now, but he will come when he has opportunity.” Paul was very burdened to help the Corinthians deal with their problems, which involved both him and Apollos; thus, Paul hoped that Apollos would visit the Corinthians in person. In this verse Paul did not say that he “charged” Apollos but that he “urged” Apollos. Nevertheless, even after Paul urged Apollos many times, Apollos did not do what Paul wanted him to do; rather, Apollos said that he would visit the Corinthians when he had opportunity. This is strong proof that in the Lord’s work Paul did not exercise authority to send co-workers to any place to work.
> 
> In the New Testament there were apostles and also leading apostles, but there was absolutely no “head apostle.” The New Testament also reveals that only the Holy Spirit has the authority to send out workers; neither the apostles nor the leading apostles have the authority to do this. What the apostles should do is preach the gospel, define the truths, raise up churches, appoint elders, and build up the churches. 
