
Building Up the Vital Groups to Gain the Increase
CWWL, Letters & Gleanings, vol. 3
Chapter 1 - Meeting by language, building up the vital groups, and blending the churches

> THE BLENDING OF THE CHURCHES
>
> Neighboring churches should endeavor to come together for blending. In principle, Christians should gather as much as possible. However, because it is not possible for all the believers to dwell in one city, they meet in different localities. Therefore, the unique church, the Body of Christ, is expressed as many local churches. This is a practical matter. According to the vision in the Bible that we have received from the Lord, there should be local churches in various cities. In principle, if we live in ten different cities, there should be a church in each of these cities. According to the New Testament, the practice of the church life in the early days was the practice of having one church for one city, one city with only one church (Rev. 1:11; Acts 8:1; 1 Cor. 1:2). The jurisdiction of a local church should cover the whole city in which the church is located; it should not be greater or lesser than the boundary of the city. The boundary of a local church does not extend beyond the city in which the church is. A local church should not cover two or more cities, and neither should there be two churches in one city. For instance, the Dallas metroplex has a number of cities, and eight local churches in the metroplex have been raised up. These churches should come together as often as possible. The more frequently the churches come together to be blended, the better. This is to keep the principle of the Body: the Body of Christ is not local but universal. 
>
>  The book of Revelation, the last book of the Bible, is a lengthy Epistle that contains the Lord’s seven epistles addressed to seven churches in Asia. At the end of each epistle the Lord says, “He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches” (2:7, 11, 17, 29; 3:6, 13, 22). This indicates that each of the seven epistles is the Spirit’s word to all the churches. Hence, the Lord wanted each of these seven churches to read all seven epistles. For instance, the Lord intended that His epistle to the church in Ephesus be received and digested by the saints in all the seven churches. The Lord blended the seven churches by sending them one Epistle, the book of Revelation, which contains the seven epistles to the seven churches. This principle is also seen in Colossians 4:16, where the apostle Paul blended the church in Colossae and the church in Laodicea by writing one letter to each of the two churches respectively and asking them to read the two letters reciprocally. In our natural life we prefer to keep things confidential. For instance, when a co-worker writes a letter to the church in Dallas, he may request that the church keep the letter confidential because he does not want other churches to know the content of his letter to the church in Dallas. Contrary to this practice, Paul wrote a letter to the church in Laodicea and asked the church in Laodicea to allow the church in Colossae to read it. He also wrote a letter to the church in Colossae and asked the church in Colossae to let the church in Laodicea read it.
>
> A TEACHING REGARDING AUTONOMY
>
> In the late 1980s certain brothers in the churches erroneously claimed that the local churches should be autonomous. The word autonomy denotes self-government or independence with respect to local affairs. These brothers’ claim may have been based on G. H. Lang’s book entitled The Churches of God. In this book Lang argues that the absolute independence of each local church should be respected. However, the New Testament reveals that the universal church is the Body of Christ (Eph. 1:22-23). As parts of the organic Body, the local churches cannot be autonomous. The teaching of autonomy is erroneous. 
>
>  In the late 1980s certain rebellious ones quoted sentences from Brother Watchman Nee’s book The Normal Christian Church Life, stating that once the apostles have established elders in a particular local church, the apostles should avoid interfering with that church’s affairs. However, The Normal Christian Church Life was not Brother Nee’s final word on this subject. In 1948, eleven years after sharing the messages in The Normal Christian Church Life, Brother Nee gave the messages compiled in the book Church Affairs, which may be considered a concluding word on his study of the practice of the church life. In this book Brother Nee says that after establishing a local church, the apostles need to remain there to teach the elders concerning how to be proper elders and how to care for the saints. For instance, after helping to establish the church in Ephesus and appointing the elders there, the apostle Paul did not keep his hands off that church. Instead, at one point he remained in Ephesus for three years, declaring to the saints all the counsel of God, admonishing them with tears night and day, and teaching them both publicly and from house to house (Acts 20:13-38). This indicates that instead of taking his hands off the church in Ephesus, the apostle Paul stayed with that church in order to perfect the saints in the church.

The Practical Points concerning Blending
CWWL, 1994–1997, vol. 1
Chapter 3 - The significance of the blending

> When Brother Nee was raised up by the Lord, he saw the light that the local churches are needed for the Lord to take the procedure to go on to reach His goal in His economy. So he stressed the local churches very much. For seventy-two years we have all followed this revelation. We have stressed the local churches again and again. 
>
>  Recently, among us there has been a kind of rebellion since 1987. One of the leading ones in this rebellion picked up the wrong teaching of G. H. Lang in his book The Churches of God. In this book Lang stressed the autonomy of each local church. This was an old wrong teaching by the Brethren. We knew this already. Yes, we do stress the local churches, but we do not stand for the autonomy of the local churches. 
>
>  The one church is expressed in the local churches because of physical reasons. We believers are scattered on this earth, so we cannot be in one location. We have to be in many locations, so in a sense, we have to be separated by localities. But we cannot forget that the churches are the Body of Christ. Ephesians 4 says that there is one Body (v. 4). Paul says that though we are many, we are still one bread and one Body (1 Cor. 10:17). 
>
>  The parts of our physical body cannot be autonomous. Is it possible that the shoulder is one autonomy, the nose is another autonomy, and the two feet are two other autonomies? If this is so, then our body becomes a divided carcass. In the same way, Christ’s Body is an organic unity, and no part of His Body can be autonomous. 
>
>  The British Brethren stressed very much that the seven local churches in Asia, spoken of in Revelation 2 and 3, were different, independent, and autonomous. Some even said that there is not only the local church but also the local Body. That would mean that Christ has thousands of “Bodies.” Based upon the wrong teaching of the Brethren, some dissenting ones said that in Revelation 2 and 3 the seven churches are different, so seven different epistles were written to them respectively. This seems reasonable, but we need to see that in Revelation 2 and 3 the seven churches are different on the negative side. They are different in their failures, mistakes, sinful things, and wrongdoings. 
>
>  In Revelation 1 the Lord showed us seven lampstands, which are the signs of seven churches. These seven lampstands are all identical in nature, in essence, in size, in type, in appearance, in color, and in function. No one could discern which lampstand is which unless you put a label on each one of them. How could you say that these seven local churches are different? The Lord rebuked them for all their differences. Yes, the Lord did write epistles to each of them respectively. But He bound these epistles together to make a total epistle, an aggregate epistle. 
>
>  In the whole book of Revelation the Lord showed us that the overcomers are not of different groups. The overcomers always are one unique group. The dead overcomers are signified by the man-child in Revelation 12, and the living overcomers are signified by the firstfruits, the one hundred forty-four thousand standing on Mount Zion, in Revelation 14. These are not different groups of overcomers but one unique group. 
>
>  Not only so, eventually, the book of Revelation does have a consummation. In this consummation all the seven lampstands disappear. In the first chapter we see the seven lampstands. But in the last two chapters we see only one city. Eventually, the local churches will be over. Only the Body will remain and remain forever, and this Body of Christ is the unique tabernacle as God’s dwelling place on this earth, the unique bride of the Lamb (21:2-3). We all have to see this. 
>
>  Therefore, we must pay much more attention to the Body of Christ than to the local churches. This does not mean that I annul the teaching of the local churches. We still need it. As a person, we have a physical frame. That is our body. But a body by itself is a carcass. A physical body needs an inner life. Today the church is the same. On the one hand, it does have a frame, a body, but this frame is not the nature, the essence, or the element of the church. Ephesians 4 tells us the church is the Body, and within this church is the  Spirit, the Lord, and the Father (vv. 4-6). The Father is the source, the Lord is the element, and the Spirit is the essence of the Body. These four entities are built together.

The Organic Union in God's Relationship with Man
CWWL, 1993, vol. 2
Chapter 5 - In the Building Up of the Body of Christ

> In the recent rebellion in the Lord’s recovery, a teaching was promoted which said that all the local churches are autonomous. Immediately, I recognized this as the wrong teaching of G. H. Lang, a teacher who was once among the Brethren. In correcting this wrong teaching, I posed the question: “Can any part of our body be autonomous? Can the arm say that it is autonomous from the rest of the body?” The obvious answer is no. Any member of our body that decides to become autonomous will die. The members of the body are not autonomous. 
>
>  Apparently, growth is for individual believers and building is corporate. Actually, both growth and building are corporate. The feet do not grow at one time, and the hands at a later time, as if the two were autonomous. The entire body grows together as a corporate entity. Therefore, the teaching concerning autonomy is nonsensical. Many years ago we discarded this teaching. There is no such thing as autonomy in the Body. Some in the recent rebellion taught autonomy in order to keep others away. They said, “Don’t come to our place to bother us. We are a local church. We have our own jurisdiction. No one has any right to touch us.” If this is true, where is the Body? 
>
>  The Lord has made it clear to us that the building is the growth. Yes, growth is for the building, but building and growth are not two different things. As human beings, if we do not grow, we can never build ourselves up. In order to be built up, we need to grow every day and even every moment. It seems that this growth is so slow that we cannot tell any difference from day to day. However, after fifteen years, a small babe is built up to be a strong young man. This takes place not by addition but by growth. 
>
> Few Christians today know what the genuine building is. Therefore, it is easy to understand why, on the earth today, there is very little building among the children of God. In order to realize what building is, we must look at our physical body. Not one member of our body is separate. All the members stay together and grow together as a complete body.

Southern California Elders' and Co-workers' Meetings
CWWL, 1993, vol. 1
Chapter 25 - Three Crucial matters concerning the Body of Christ - life, coordination and order

> In his ministry Brother Watchman Nee emphasized the Body of Christ and stressed the matter of coordination. Upon the resumption of his ministry, Brother Nee pointed out that some make their local church a “native church” and a “small empire.” Such ones built churches in the same way that “native churches” had been built in China. A “native church” was a so-called church raised up in a village and **cut off from other influences**; in such a “church” everything was done according to the way of the village where that “church” existed. I am concerned that some dissenting ones among us are attempting to build up their own empire by **isolating the church in their locality from other churches**. Such churches are like little isolated “kingdoms.” These dissenters assert that after establishing a church and appointing elders, **the apostles should keep their hands off the church and allow it to be autonomous**. This teaching of autonomy is contrary to the teaching of the New Testament. According to the New Testament, the apostle Paul visited and wrote Epistles to the churches that he had established (Acts 18:18-21a, 23; 19:1-7; Eph. 1:1). After appointing the elders in Ephesus (Acts 20:17; cf. 14:23), Paul visited the church in Ephesus and remained with the church for three years (ch. 19; 20:31; 1 Cor. 16:8). During this time he admonished the saints in Ephesus with tears night and day and taught the saints publicly and from house to house (Acts 20:20, 31). Later, while journeying to Jerusalem, he sent some from Miletus to call for the elders of the church in Ephesus to come to him (vv. 16-17). This indicates that the church in Ephesus was not absolutely autonomous. **If the dissenting ones saw the Body of Christ, they would not dare to teach or practice absolute autonomy of local churches**.
> 
> A certain elder may consider that every aspect of the church should be under his control. Such an elder exercises full control over the church in his locality, and no one else has any say. As a result, there is little building up of any aspect of the church life or service, including the work among the children, the preaching of the gospel, and the seeking of the growth in life. Because such ones become a frustration to the work, we have not encouraged such brothers to join others in laboring on other parts of the work. The leading ones should not be kings, having absolute authority and exercising control. Instead, they should serve as overseers, maintaining order under the headship of Christ. Those who exercise control over the churches and the saints should not be sent to carry out a work in any region, for they will become a hindrance to the work. It is better for the work to be carried out by the local saints than to be controlled by such persons.
> 
> I can testify before the Lord that I have not overstepped my measure. **It is wrong to claim that those who take the lead in the Lord’s ministry do not have spiritual authority** (cf. 2 Cor. 10:8; 13:10; 1 Thes. 2:6). In a school the teacher has authority over the students. Similarly, the authority in the Lord’s work comes from His speaking. Since the Lord has placed me in the lead in the Lord’s ministry, a certain measure of authority has been given to me.
> 
> The leadership in the New Testament does not reside with a person but with the teaching of the apostles (Acts 2:42; cf. 1 Tim. 1:3-4). Although I do not exercise control over the churches or the saints, **the Lord has entrusted me with His speaking, in which there is a measure of authority**. Even though we have passed through much opposition, the Lord’s speaking is still with me. By His grace I can testify that no one can overthrow the ministry in the Lord’s recovery, because I have ministered the word and conducted myself according to the principles that the Lord has revealed in the Bible. This does not mean that I am perfect. However, I am careful in my dealings with the ones with whom the Lord has placed me. My dealing with the saints differs depending on the ones with whom I labor. With those who are fully open to me, I can speak very freely, although I do not exercise control over them. It is easy for me to labor with those who are faithful, simple, and strict and who respect and honor this ministry, yet it is difficult for me to labor with those who are loose and unreliable.



The Apostles' Relationship with the Churches and Their Perfecting of the Saints
CWWL, 1988, vol. 3

> Sometime after the Brethren were raised up, they became divided into the closed Brethren and the open Brethren. Among the open Brethren a teacher named G. H. Lang wrote many books, including The Churches of God. In that book Lang proposed that every local church should be an isolated autonomy and should be clearly separated from all other local churches. At the same time, Lang condemned Darby for trying to unify the churches into a federation. The fact that Lang’s book uses the terms autonomy and federation indicates that neither Darby nor Lang knew the ground of the local church. 
>
> We must emphasize that it is wrong to teach that every local church is absolutely autonomous. The local churches can be autonomous in their affairs and administration; however, on the spiritual side, in receiving the apostles’ teaching and cultivation for the building up, they cannot be autonomous but should be the same universally. For example, Paul says in 1 Corinthians 4:17, “I have sent Timothy to you...who will remind you of my ways which are in Christ, even as I teach everywhere in every church.” This word indicates that the apostle taught the same thing to the churches in every place. Moreover, Revelation 2 and 3 reveal that each epistle written by the Lord to the seven local churches individually should be heard by all the local churches (2:7, 11, 17, 29; 3:6, 13, 22). In other words, all the epistles are for all the churches in every place. This illustrates that, whereas the churches can be autonomous in their local affairs and administration, in receiving the apostles’ teaching on the spiritual side, they cannot be autonomous; rather, they should be the same universally. 
>
> Furthermore, in nature and in the testimony of its spiritual life, every church should be exactly the same without any difference. According to Revelation 1, the apostle John saw a vision in which the seven churches in Asia were seven golden lampstands (vv. 12, 20). Since the nature and shape of the seven golden lampstands are completely identical and are even one, if the seven lampstands were placed together without labels, no one would be able tell them apart. This indicates that all the churches should be absolutely the same in nature and testimony. 
>
> Ephesians 1:22-23 speaks of “the church, which is His [Christ’s] Body.” This word is not a figure of speech but a statement of fact. We may consider the human body as an illustration. The same blood flows from our head to our toes, and it is impossible to have one kind of blood flowing in the arms and another kind flowing in the legs. Moreover, the members of a human body are mutually joined one to another, and it is impossible for a living body to have the head as an autonomous region, the shoulders as another autonomous region, and the legs as yet another autonomous region. An attempt to have autonomous regions in a human body will divide and dismember the body. As a result, there will be no body but only a corpse. We  must see that since the church is an organism, it cannot be divided and have autonomous parts.
>
> The truths in the Bible have two sides: on the one hand, all the local churches are local expressions of the Body of Christ and can be autonomous in their practical administration and affairs; on the other hand, as far as the reality and essence of the Body of Christ are concerned, all the local churches are absolutely one, having one life, one Spirit, and one person. Each of the fifty states in the United States has its own administration and government, yet to a certain extent each state is not divided from the United States and is not absolutely independent or autonomous. That is, all the states in the United States share the same currency, postal service, constitution, national defense, foreign affairs, and Congress. Hence, even though each state is partially autonomous, the states are not independent. If they were independent, they would become fifty countries. Similarly, in the aspects of practical administration and local affairs, the churches in various localities are autonomous; however, as far as the spiritual substance of the churches is concerned, all the local churches together are the organic Body of Christ. They are mutually joined and related, having one life and one person, and absolutely cannot be separated. 
>
> In summary, the many churches are local and separate in terms of their administration and affairs; however, in terms of the local churches being the unique Body of Christ, they cannot be divided, because once the Body is divided, it is dismembered, and there is no more Body. Furthermore, the Body is only one and cannot be many. If a person had one head and three bodies, how terrible that would be! On the one hand, as far as administration, affairs, and convenience of the saints in meeting together are concerned, there can be a local church in every city throughout the earth; thus, the entire earth can have tens of thousands of local churches. We should take up the burden from the Lord to raise up a church as the Lord’s golden lampstand in our locality. On the other hand, as far as the spiritual essence is concerned, all the churches throughout the ages in all places are the one Body of Christ. Such a Body grows by the apostles’ going out to preach the gospel and by their expounding the truth, establishing churches, and appointing elders. However, the responsibility of the apostles does not stop with the appointing of elders in a locality. It is not that after they appoint the elders in a local church, they no longer have the authority to be involved with that church. Such a concept is not according to the truth in the Bible. On the contrary, the Bible reveals that after the apostles appoint the elders in a church, they still have the responsibility, authority, and position to be involved with the matters of that church. The gradual building up of a church after its elders are appointed depends mainly on the spiritual teaching and cultivation by the apostles. The many Epistles in the New Testament were written for that purpose. Today the co-workers should follow the footsteps of the apostles by continually helping the churches in their spiritual life after the elders are appointed. If the apostles are no longer allowed to be involved with the matters of the churches after they appoint elders, will the apostles not become jobless? The apostles’ ceasing to be involved with the churches that they establish can be compared to a mother abandoning her child and not raising him after giving him birth. However, in the New Testament the apostle Paul not only begot many saints through the gospel but also continued to feed and teach them (1 Cor. 4:15; Col. 1:28). Our practice today must match the pattern of the apostle.
