
> **2. A Snare on All the Earth’s Dwellers Is Coming**
> 
> Another need for the rapture is that a snare on all the earth’s dwellers is coming (Luke 21:34-35). Just as a fisherman spreads a net to snare fish, so Satan is spreading his net to snare us. In Luke 21:34 the Lord mentions three things related to the snare spoken of in verse 35: “And take heed to yourselves lest at some time your hearts be weighed down with dissipation and drunkenness and anxieties of life, and that day come upon you suddenly as a snare.” In this verse the Lord mentions dissipation (eating), drunkenness (drinking), and the anxieties of life. Since World War II, nearly everyone on earth has been occupied with these three things. Industry, for example, is altogether for the cares of this life. The same is true of finance. All the universities are for industry, industry is for money, and money is for the cares of this life. Consider the billions of people on the earth today: their only concern is the cares of this life. Everything they are involved in—education, industry, politics, warfare—revolves around the cares of this life. Eating, drinking, and the cares of this life are the three main elements of the devilish snare, the net used by Satan to trap everyone on [342] earth. In these verses in Luke, the Lord Jesus is saying that the time will come when all the dwellers on earth will be snared. I have been alive for more than seventy years and I have been observing the world situation for nearly sixty years. I know what human life is. I have studied human history, I have read the newspapers, and I have observed the world situation. I have discovered that, especially since World War II, people care for nothing except their physical life. God did not create the earth in a haphazard way. No, His creation is beautiful and contains many fine things. However, if we are snared by any of these things, we shall be caught by them. For instance, it is necessary and proper to maintain a suitable dwelling place for ourselves, but we must be on the alert not to be snared by it.
>
> Although there is the grave danger of being snared by eating, drinking, and the cares of this life, we still need to live a normal human life. The young people need to obtain a good education, for this is necessary in order to earn a living. Do not excuse yourself by saying, “I don’t care for this life. Since I only love the Lord, I will give up studying and just praise the Lord all day long.” If you do this, you will be a burden to others. You may be all right, but others will not be. You may claim to have faith, but your so-called faith will force others to labor for you. No, you must study diligently and do well in school. However, do not do this for the purpose of making a name for yourself or of becoming a person of renown. Although you must study, do not allow education to be your snare. Still some may say, “Because I don’t want to be snared, I won’t go to school. It’s better to spend all my time reading the Bible and fellowshipping with all my young colleagues. Wouldn’t this be wonderful?” Many young people have this mistaken concept, saying, “The Lord Jesus might come tomorrow. Why then should we study so much? This is a waste of time.” Although the Lord might come tomorrow, because of your laziness, He may tarry until you have learned to study and have graduated from school.
>
> As fallen people, we are unbalanced. Matthew 24:40 speaks of two being in the field. It does not say that two are [343] sleeping, fellowshipping, or living wholly for the Lord without engaging in any work. Some might say, “Since the Lord might come back tomorrow, why must we work in the field? If necessary, we could even fast for three meals until He comes.” I once heard a message in which the speaker said, “How wonderful it would be if, when the Lord comes, my wife and I would be praising and praying.” But the Bible does not indicate that we shall be doing these things when He appears. Rather, Matthew 24:41 speaks of two women grinding at the mill. In ancient times, the most difficult work for women was grinding wheat. If I were one of the women in those days, I might have said, “The young brothers have helped us to know that the Lord Jesus might come back tonight. What then is the need to labor at grinding wheat? This is a waste of time. Why must we still grind flour if the Lord is coming tonight? Let’s just sit here and wait for His coming.” This is an illustration of one extreme.
>
> On the other extreme are those Christians who care for nothing except making money and spending it. They say, “Oh, we shouldn’t be so spiritual. We must be practical and take care of our wives and children. I must support my family and care for many other things. I don’t have the time to attend the church meetings. Can’t we worship God at home?” To those at this extreme, the Lord may say, “I will come as a thief. I will come at the time when you least expect Me. Perhaps I’ll come when you are engrossed with making money.” But to those on the other extreme, He may say, “Because of you, I will delay My coming. You are too earnest for My coming back. You are so earnest that you don’t do anything. You don’t even take care of your cooking. I will delay My coming until you learn to cook, make money, and take care of yourself and others.” I mean what I am saying and I am serious about it. This is the poor situation among Christians today.
>
> We all must do our duty to earn a living, yet we must do it without being snared by it. We may have many things, but we must never allow them to rule us. Learn to be balanced, falling neither into the extreme of idleness nor into the [344] extreme of being occupied with the affairs of this life. With this matter, as in so many other things, there are two sides. Consider the example of the apostle Paul. Was he not waiting for the Lord’s coming back? If you examine his writings, you will see that all of them were for the long run. He never said, “Dear saints, because the Lord Jesus might come tomorrow, you don’t need to do so many things. You should just sit around and pray.” No, in his epistles Paul seemed to be saying, “While we are waiting for the Lord’s coming back, we must still live in a normal way.” Although we do not know when the Lord will come, we do know that as long as we are on earth, we must have a normal living to be the proper testimony of the Lord Jesus. We must obtain the best education and have a balanced daily living. We also must maintain our houses and, in every respect, be normal people.
>
> As those who are waiting for the Lord’s coming back, we must have a proper living without being snared by anything. Our heart is on nothing but the Lord Jesus. However, this does not mean that we do not study, conduct business, and take care of daily chores, such as cleaning. Do not say, “Why must I keep my clothes neat and clean? It is a waste of time and money to do the laundry. The Lord doesn’t care for the flesh; He only cares for my spirit. As long as my spirit is clean, everything is fine.” I have the assurance that many young people still have this attitude. They do not even make their beds in the morning, considering it to be a waste of their time. As long as they have a place to lie down, they are satisfied, thinking that they can spend their time reading the Bible or spiritual books. They do not know why they must work to keep their room neat, clean, and orderly. Their sloppiness may delay the Lord’s coming back. The Lord may tell them, “You must learn to make your bed early in the morning, comb your hair, and shine your shoes. Then you must arrange all your books in a good order. Don’t put the New Testament before the Old Testament.” No elder who is careless can be useful in building up the church. We must learn to be diligent, keeping everything in good order. However, we should not dream about those things at night. [345] Rather, when the Lord says, “Behold, I come quickly,” we must be able to forget everything. Some keep their things in good order, but this becomes a snare to them. This is a test to determine where we are. We are here as the testimony of Jesus. We are normal people living a normal life, but nothing of this life can touch us. We are not sloppy, idle, lazy, or careless. Yet, nothing in this world has any control over us. These two sides of the matter will force us to be one with the Lord.
>
> What is the meaning of rapture? It is to be taken into the Lord’s presence. If you would be taken into His presence, you must be in His presence today. Much of your praising and fellowshipping may not be in His presence, but may simply be according to your own choice. You are not in the presence of the Lord, but in your preference and taste. When you desire to fellowship, the Lord may say, “Go to work or study.”

Life-Study of Revelation, Message 29



> **5. Before the Coming of Christ,**
> >
> **One Being Taken and the Other Left**
>
> Verses 40 and 41 say, “Then shall two men be in the field; one is taken, and one is left. Two women shall be grinding at the mill; one is taken, and one is left.” According to the context, “Then” here means “by that time.” It indicates that while the worldly people are befuddled by [738] the material things, with no sense of the coming judgment, some of the sober and watchful believers will be taken away. To the befuddled people, this should be a sign of Christ’s coming.
>
> The two men in verse 40 must be brothers in Christ, and the two women in verse 41 must be sisters in the Lord. This is indicated by verse 42, which tells us to watch because we do not know on what day our Lord comes. Both “watch therefore” and “your Lord” prove that the two men and the two women in verses 40 and 41 are believers. The Lord would not charge unsaved people to watch, nor is He the Lord of the unsaved.
>
> To be taken means to be raptured before the great tribulation. This rapture is a sign of the Lord’s coming and a sign to the Jews. It is very interesting to see that the two men are working in the field and that the two women are grinding at the mill. Both working in the field and grinding are for eating. There is a difference between our eating and the eating of the worldly people. The worldly people study and work, and we also study and work. The worldly people, however, have been drugged. But we have not been drugged. Rather, we are simply fulfilling our duty to make a living. We are not for eating, drinking, and marriage; on the contrary, we maintain our existence in order to take the way of the cross to fulfill God’s purpose. Our concern is not for our education, employment, or business.
>
>When some of the young people hear this, they may say, “How glad we are to hear this word! Let’s not care any more for study or for work. Let us spend all our time praying and having fellowship with one another.” Such an attitude is wrong. Remember, according to verse 40 the brothers were farming, and according to verse 41 the sisters were grinding. Grinding grain is very hard work. This indicates that we Christians should not take easy jobs. We need to work hard in order to make a living. The eating and drinking in verse 38 is worldly, but the farming and grinding in verses 40 and 41 are holy. If the ones taken were not doing something holy, they could not have been raptured. [739] Do you realize that farming can be holy, but working as a pastor can be very worldly? A Bible teacher may be worldly; yet a sister who grinds grain may be holy. Many of the sisters who work at cooking the meals are holy sisters. It is not those who talk about holiness who are necessarily holy. Sometimes the more certain sisters talk about being holy, the less holy they are. It is better for such sisters to spend more time cooking to serve excellent food to their husbands, their children, and those to whom they give hospitality. The sisters who do this will be holy. Some sisters know how to have fellowship about being holy, but they do not know how to do a good job in their cooking. They always cook plain meals for their families, excusing themselves by saying that there is no need for them to waste time in cooking. But after a period of time, their husbands and children are discontent with such cooking. The more these sisters talk about being holy, the less holy their husbands and children become. They talk about holiness, but they do not take proper care of their families. We need more holy sisters to grind at the mill to produce fine flour. We are not drugged, but we do need to be properly nourished.
>
> The principle is the same with the brothers in their jobs. A brother should not talk about holiness and neglect his job. If he does this, he will be fired. Notice, the rapture does not take place when the two brothers and the two sisters are praying, but when they are working. When I was young, I was told how wonderful it would be to be raptured while we were praying or reading the Bible. But the Lord Jesus does not speak this way. Instead, He says that two men were farming and that two women were grinding. They were not fasting, praying, or reading the Bible; they were doing their ordinary work.
>
> The Lord Jesus certainly spoke this word with a definite purpose. He wanted to show us that as we wait for His coming and expect to be raptured, we must be very faithful in our daily duties. We need to do the best farming and the best grinding. We need a properly balanced human life, [740] not the life of monks who devote themselves to spiritual things and expect others to take care of them. It is the brothers working in the field and the sisters grinding in the mill who will be raptured.
>
> There used to be a proverb that anyone who becomes a preacher becomes useless. The reason for this proverb is that preachers do not need to work to earn a living. Rather, the burden for their living is placed upon others. It is a shame for us to be like this. We need to work diligently and do our duty in a proper way. When we are in the field or at the mill, we may be raptured. The sisters who are wives and mothers must do the best grinding and learn how to prepare the most healthy meals for their families. Sisters, if your husband and children are not healthy, you will be held responsible for this before the Lord. If you take care of this matter before the Lord, you will be truly holy. Do not spend your time in talking about holiness, but spend it in cooking healthy, digestible, delicious meals. You need to prepare good meals to preserve the life of your husband and to build up the health of your children. This matter is included in the Lord’s reference to grinding at the mill.

Life-Study of Matthew, Message 63


> **A CORRECTION OF THE DISORDERLY WALK**
> The concluding sections of this book surely sound like a word spoken to young believers. After speaking concerning profound matters in 2:13—3:5, Paul goes on to give a word concerning correction of the disorderly walk. In 3:6 he says, “Now we charge you, brothers, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, that you keep away from every brother walking disorderly and not according to the tradition which you received from us.” A disorderly walk is not only according to the flesh (Rom. 8:4), but is also against the building up of the church life (1 Thes. 5:11; Rom. 14:19; 1 Cor. 10:23).
>
> It may seem that walking disorderly is a small point. Nevertheless, it certainly is practical. I believe that the disorderliness in Thessalonica came from the misconception regarding the Lord’s coming back. Some believers thought that the Lord Jesus would be coming back soon, and therefore it was not necessary for them to work. Their concept may have been that as long as they had something to eat and could survive, that was adequate. Those who have such a concept become “superbelievers.” They go above the level of proper spirituality.
>
> Several years ago, a number of the young people thought that as long as they loved the Lord Jesus and were living the church life, it was not necessary for them to have a higher education. They thought it was adequate to do some kind of [56] simple work. I came to know the situation and realized that this concept is absolutely wrong. We live in an age when it is necessary to have an education. In order to live properly in this age, we need a good education. Without the right kind of education, it would not be easy for us to make a living. I gave a strong word to the young people encouraging them to complete college and, if possible, to go on to graduate school. Furthermore, I encouraged them to study subjects such as medicine or law. I am thankful that this word was widely accepted by the young people. During the years that followed, many completed their education. Now they can testify how much help they received from that word.
>
> Do not think that as long as we are spiritual, seek the Lord, and are for the Lord’s testimony and recovery, there is no need for us to be prepared for work through good education. We live in an age of education, knowledge, science, and industry. If the young people do not have a proper education, it will be difficult for them to have a proper human living. Therefore, I encourage all the young people to gain a good education.
>
> In verse 6 Paul charges the believers to keep away from any brother who walks disorderly. This indicates that Paul considers it a serious matter to walk disorderly, for this is a damage to the church life.
>
> At this point I would like to say that it is better not to do anything with which the brothers would not agree. If you want to do a certain thing and the brothers do not feel good about it, you should hesitate and reconsider. The fellowship of the brothers is a protection and a safeguard. It will preserve you in the church life. Perhaps you think that you know more than the brothers. This may actually be the situation. Nevertheless, it is always safe to listen to the brothers. This is a good protection and safeguard.
>
> Paul tells us not to keep company with one who is disorderly. If you keep company with such a one, you may encourage him to continue in his disorderly living. Staying away from him will serve as a warning to him. It will also help to keep you from making the same kind of mistake. [57]
>
> Walking disorderly is upsetting to the church life. If we would have a proper church life, we need to learn to walk in an orderly way and to stay away from anyone who walks disorderly.

Life-Study of 2 Thessalonians, Message 7





> **VIII. THE TREASURE OF THINGS NEW AND OLD**
> 
> At the end of this chapter the Lord spoke an additional parable. Verse 52 says, “He said to them, For this reason every scribe discipled to the kingdom of the heavens is like a householder who brings forth out of his treasure things new and old.” After giving the seven parables concerning the mysteries of the kingdom, the Lord likened the discipled scribe to a householder who has a treasure, a rich store of things new and old, signifying not only the new and old knowledge of the Scriptures but also the new and old experiences of life in the kingdom.
>
> This added parable concerns a scribe who has been discipled into the kingdom of the heavens. A scribe was a scholar in the Old Testament, one who knew the books of Moses and the prophets. In this parable the Lord did not use the word believed but the word discipled. Such a learned one has been discipled into the kingdom of the heavens. Formerly, he was a scholar of the Old Testament dispensation, but now he has been discipled into the kingdom of the heavens. This means that he has been discipled into God’s new economy. He knew God’s old economy, but now he has been discipled into God’s new economy. For this reason he is likened to a householder who brings forth out of his treasure things new and old. When the new things are put with the old things, we have the precious things. The apostle Paul was such a person. He was an Old Testament [469] scribe who one day was discipled into God’s New Testament economy. Hence, Paul could bring forth the old things and the new things. This qualified him to write the book of Hebrews. In this book Paul brings forth many of the old things, with the new things as the interpretation.
>
> In giving this parable the Lord was expecting that some of His listeners would be scribes, not all fishermen like Peter, John, James, and Andrew. The Lord Jesus is wise. At the turn of the new economy, He had to go to Galilee to find the unlearned fishermen. But after the turn had taken place, there would be the need of some learned ones to carry out all the mysteries. Although those Galileans heard the Lord speak all the mysteries, they were not scribes. In his writing, Peter does not refer to many things from the Old Testament; neither does John. But Paul was not a Galilean fisherman. He was a scribe who had been discipled into the kingdom. Therefore, he had a rich store, a rich treasure.
>
> The Lord’s recovery needs not only the unlearned Galileans but also the scribes. After the Lord spoke the parables of the kingdom to the Galilean fishermen, He spoke another parable regarding the scribe discipled into the kingdom of the heavens. The Lord seemed to be saying, “You Galilean fishermen must listen to this. You are not adequate to carry out God’s New Testament economy. I can use you to make the turn, but after the turn has been made, you will not be adequate. I need some scribes. I need one like Saul of Tarsus who studied at the feet of Gamaliel.” In this matter we see the Lord’s wisdom. Young people, you need to go to the best colleges and earn a degree. Then you will be scribes. Today the Lord needs not only the Galilean fishermen to make the turn; He also needs the scribes.
>
> When the disciples heard the parables concerning the mysteries of the kingdom, they might have been very happy and said, “Hallelujah, we, the Galilean fishermen, know all the mysteries of the kingdom!” But the Lord might have said, “You are happy, but I still need some scribes. Sorry, none of you are scribes. Peter, you will be good for the day of Pentecost, good for throwing the net and catching a large number of people. But after so many have been brought into the church, how will [470] you deal with them? You Galilean fishermen do not have the ability for this. I need some scribes full of knowledge, some scribes discipled into My economy. These scribes will pull out the things new and old both from their knowledge and from their experience.” Because Paul had advanced in religion, he could write the book of Galatians. Peter, however, could not write such a book. This is proved by Peter’s word in his second book (2 Pet. 3:15-16). Perhaps he was the leading fisherman in casting the net, but he was not advanced in the Jewish religion. He did not know the books of Leviticus and Psalms as well as Saul of Tarsus did. Thus, all the Galilean fishermen were subdued by the parable of the scribe. If we apply this parable to Paul, we see what a rich treasure he had. Out of his treasure he could bring forth new doctrines and old doctrines, new experiences and old experiences. I hope that some of the young people will become scribes. For the Lord’s recovery today we need both the fishermen and the scribes.

Life-Study of Matthew, Message 40
