need to not only enjoy the lords presence but live christ.
need to magnify christ by experiencing him in our circumstances

chose to remain in the flesh for the sake of the saints.

it matter to the body and the church life whether paul lived or died because he was a channel ofsupply. all the elders in the churches should be such ones, and even all of us should be like this.

paul used the expression "boast in christ in me" because he was a channel of supply the saints boasting in paul was like their boasting in christ. for example the fingers in our body receive the supply from the head through the arm. paul was like the arm for the philippians saints who were like the fingers.

> Throughout the centuries, Christians have been encouraged to practice the presence of the Lord. However, there has been little encouragement, if any, to live Him. Many believers are familiar with the famous book <em>The Practice of the Presence of God</em> and have been encouraged by it to endeavor to live in God’s presence. However, the concept of practicing the presence of God is mainly an Old Testament concept, not a New Testament one. Yes, according to the New Testament, we may enjoy the Lord’s presence on the one hand. But, on the other hand, we should practice living Him. We have not only the Lord’s presence, but we also have His Person. Not only do we need to be in His presence; we also need to be one person with Him and live Him. To live Christ is a much deeper experience than simply to be in His presence. Living Him goes far beyond the enjoyment of His presence.
>
>  Do you intend just to practice the presence of Christ, or is it your desire also to live Christ? To live the Lord is even better than to be with the Lord. Yes, it is a gain to die and be with the Lord in a greater degree than on earth. But it is even better to live Him while we are on earth. Probably you have thanked the Lord for His presence, but have you ever thanked Him for the experience of living Him? It is easy for us to thank the Lord for the sweetness and loveliness of His presence. Many have the habit of doing this. Sometimes when I am about to utter such a thanksgiving to the Lord, I have the conviction within that I am simply following an Old Testament practice. I am then reminded of my need to live Christ. <span class="verse" data-ref-id="90290" data-verses="1Corinthians 6:17">First Corinthians 6:17</span> says, “He that is joined unto the Lord is one spirit.” We are one spirit with the Lord not only that we may enjoy His presence, but even more that we live Him. But what Christians today are being instructed and helped to live Christ? For years we have been helped to develop the habit of practicing the Lord’s presence. This experience is on the first floor of the Christian life. Now in the Lord’s recovery we must go on to the second floor, to the practice of living Christ. 
