#### 1 - summary
**During his school days** Watchman Nee's seeking after the Lord brought him into frequent contact with Margaret E. Barber. Miss Barber, an Anglican missionary, was sent to Fukien, China, in the latter part  of the last century. Her co-missionaries became jealous of her and  fabricated a serious charge which caused her to be recalled from the  field. Miss Barber had  come to know the Lord in a living way. She had deeply experienced the  cross and practiced continually the lessons of the cross. For this  reason, she decided not to vindicate herself concerning the charges made against her. She remained at home in Great Britain for a number of  years. At a certain point, the chairman of the mission board became  aware that the case against her was misrepresented, and he asked her to  tell him the truth. He said he realized that she was seeking to learn  the lesson of the cross and that she would say nothing in her own  defense, but as one in authority over her, he commanded her to tell the  truth. Miss Barber then  told the whole story. She was fully vindicated before the mission board, and the decision was made to send her back to China. However, she  resigned from the mission, considering that it was the right time to do  so, even though she still had the burden to return to China for the  Lord's interest. (*Watchman Nee—A Seer of the Divine Revelation in the Present Age,* Chapter 3, Section 2)

#### 2 - concerning denominations
**Before this time** Miss Barber had come in contact with D.M. Panton. Mr. Panton was both a great  student of the Word and one who had learned the evils of  denominationalism. Through her relationship with him, Miss Barber also became clear concerning the denominations. (*Watchman Nee—A Seer of the Divine Revelation in the Present Age,* Chapter 3, Section 2)

#### 4 - summary
After spending much time in prayer, she felt the Lord Himself was **sending her back to China**. She did return to China, but this time not in connection with any mission. From a human standpoint, she went back on her own in  the early part of this century. She settled in a suburb of Foochow,  Watchman Nee's home city. She lived there with little traveling and no  publicity. She simply remained at home, praying much for the Lord's move in China and helping those who sought her counsel in seeking after the  Lord. She was, no doubt, a seed sown in China by the Lord for His  recovery. She composed a number of poems, many of which have been  adapted for inclusion in our hymnbook (Hymns, published by Living Stream Ministry). All of them exhibit a deep experience in Christ. (*Watchman Nee—A Seer of the Divine Revelation in the Present Age,* Chapter 3, Section 2)

#### 5 - live by faith
Margaret Barber lived by faith. She had no outward means of support. According to  Chinese custom, all bills must be fully paid at the end of the year. But at the end of one year, she discovered she was short one hundred twenty Chinese dollars. With only two days remaining until the Chinese new  year, she prayed desperately to the Lord for this need. On the last day  of the year, a cable arrived from D.M. Panton in London through the  British bank in Foochow. The amount sent was exactly one hundred twenty  Chinese dollars. (*Watchman Nee—A Seer of the Divine Revelation in the Present Age,* Chapter 3, Section 2)

#### 6 - perfecting brother Nee
Through his relationship with Miss Barber, Watchman Nee was greatly edified and perfected. Whenever he had a  problem or needed spiritual instruction or strengthening, he would go to her. She treated him as a young learner and frequently administered  strict discipline. (*Watchman Nee—A Seer of the Divine Revelation in the Present Age,* Chapter 3, Section 2)

#### 7
**At that time** over sixty young brothers and sisters received help from Miss Barber. Being deep in the Lord and exceedingly strict, she frequently rebuked  the young people concerning many things. After a short time most of  these young people stopped going to her. The only one who continued to  see her was Watchman Nee. When he visited her, she rebuked and reproved  him. Frequently she pointed out that as a young man he could not serve  the Lord in this way or that way. However, the more she rebuked him, the more he returned to be rebuked. By deliberately putting himself before  her to be rebuked, he received untold help. (*Watchman Nee—A Seer of the Divine Revelation in the Present Age,* Chapter 3, Section 2)

#### 8
There were sixty-six young people under Sister Barber's training. In the first letter I received from Brother D.M. Panton, he  said that it would be considered good if after ten years six of those  young people would still remain. Now, after a long period of time, only  four remain. (*Watchman Nee—A Seer of the Divine Revelation in the Present Age,* Chapter 3, Section 3)

#### 9
Margaret Barber was very  much in the Lord's presence. One day Watchman Nee went to see her. While he was temporarily delayed in being received by her, he waited in her  living room. He said that even though she was not yet there, he had a  deep sense of the Lord's presence. (*Watchman Nee—A Seer of the Divine Revelation in the Present Age,* Chapter 3, Section 3)

#### 10
Margaret Barber was very  much in the Lord's presence. One day Watchman Nee went to see her. While he was temporarily delayed in being received by her, he waited in her  living room. He said that even though she was not yet there, he had a  deep sense of the Lord's presence. (*Watchman Nee—A Seer of the Divine Revelation in the Present Age,* Chapter 3, Section 3)

#### 11
Margaret Barber went to be with the Lord in 1930. In her will she left all her belongings to  Watchman Nee. These included little more than her old Bible with all the precious notes. Though he intended to write her biography, time did not allow. (*Watchman Nee—A Seer of the Divine Revelation in the Present Age,* Chapter 3, Section 3)

#### 12
We feel most sorrowful concerning the news of the passing away of Miss Barber in Lo-Hsing Pagoda, Fukien. She was one who was very deep in the Lord,  and in my opinion, the kind of fellowship she had with the Lord and the  kind of faithfulness she expressed to the Lord are rarely found on this  earth. (*Watchman Nee—A Seer of the Divine Revelation in the Present Age,* Chapter 3, Section 3)

#### 13
Miss Barber always put  Watchman Nee under Leland Wang (Wang Tsai), one of his co-workers.  Leland was five years his senior and was continually disagreeing with  Watchman's concept. This caused Watchman a great deal of suffering. When appealing to Miss Barber  for the solution to their problems, she would continually put him down,  saying that Leland was older than he. On one occasion a baptism was  scheduled. Who should be the baptizer became a problem to them. Watchman referred the matter to Miss Barber. Her answer was that Leland should be the baptizer. When Watchman asked  why, she answered, "Because he is older than you." Dan-wu, another  brother with them, was older than Leland Wang. Watchman thought he could defeat Leland Wang by bringing up Dan-wu and suggested to Miss Barber, "Since Brother Wu is older than Brother Leland, he should be the  baptizer." However, she still answered that Leland should be the  baptizer. She would not yield him any ground so that he might learn the  lesson of the cross and learn not to reason but to submit. (*Watchman Nee—A Seer of the Divine Revelation in the Present Age,* Chapter 3, Section 3)

#### 14
In 1923 seven of us worked together as co-workers. Two of us took the lead, a co-worker who was five years my senior and myself. We had a co-workers' meeting every Friday in which the other five were often forced to listen to the arguing between the leading two. We were all young then, and each had his own way of thinking. I often charged the elder co-worker with being wrong, and vice versa. Since my temperament had not been dealt with, I frequently lost my temper. Today in 1936 I do sometimes laugh, but I seldom laughed at that time. In our controversies I admit that many times I was wrong, but he was also at times in the wrong. It was easy for me to forgive my own faults, but not easy to forgive others. After having a dispute on Friday, I would go to Sister Barber on Saturday and accuse the other co-worker. I would say, "I told that co-worker that he should act in a certain way, but he would not listen. You should speak to him." Sister Barber replied, "He is five years older than you; you should listen to him and obey him." I answered, "Am I to listen to him whether he is reasonable or not?" She said, "Yes! The Scriptures say that the younger should obey the elder." I replied, "I cannot possibly do this. A Christian should act according to reason." She answered, "Whether there is reason or not, you need not care. The Scriptures say that the younger should obey the elder." I was angry at heart that the Bible would say such a thing. I wanted to give vent to my indignation, but I could not.

Each time following the controversy on Friday, I would go to her to state my grievances, but she would again quote the Scriptures, demanding that I obey the elder. Sometimes I wept Friday evening after the dispute on Friday afternoon. Then I would go to Sister Barber the next day to state my grievances, hoping that she would vindicate me. But I would weep again after coming home Saturday evening. I wished I had been born a few years earlier. In one controversy I had very good arguments. I felt that when I pointed them out, she would see how my co-worker was wrong and would support me. But she said, "Whether that co-worker is wrong or not is another matter. While you are accusing your brother before me, are you like one who is bearing the cross? Are you like a lamb?" When she questioned me in this way, I felt very ashamed and I could never forget it. My speech and my attitude that day revealed that I was indeed not like one bearing the cross, nor like a lamb.  (Watchman Nee—A Seer of the Divine Revelation in the Present Age, Chapter 3, Section 4)

#### 15
On the morning of March 28, 1921, my mother asked, "If I were to be baptized by immersion, how would you feel?" I replied, "That is just what I have been waiting for." She asked, "Where can we go to be baptized by immersion?" I answered, "I inquired about it quite some time ago. We can go to Mawei (which is two hours away from Foochow by small steamer) and find out from Miss Barber. When Dora Yu came to Fukien, she was baptized by immersion at Miss Barber's place." We felt that rather than choose a date, it was better to do it that same day. So my mother and I decided to depart that very same day. Upon arriving at Miss Barber's, we told her of our intention and she fully agreed. Thus, on the same day we went hurriedly to the countryside of Yangchi and were immersed there. (Watchman Nee—A Seer of the Divine Revelation in the Present Age, Chapter 6, Section 1)

#### 16
In order to keep his fellowship with the Lord untarnished, Watchman Nee learned how to apply the blood of Christ to his situation. He told me that once his conscience was strongly condemning him before God concerning certain things. He could not get through, so he was compelled to seek out Miss Barber for help. After relating his story to her, she said to him, "The blood of Jesus His Son cleanses us" (1 John 1:7). When he told her that he was still under condemnation she repeated to him several times, "The blood of Jesus His Son cleanses us." Eventually, he received light that only the blood of the Lord can keep one's conscience from any kind of condemnation before God. By that fellowship with Miss Barber, he learned that through the cleansing of the Lord's blood it is possible to keep oneself always in the presence of God. (Watchman Nee—A Seer of the Divine Revelation in the Present Age, Chapter 8, Section 3)

#### 17
Margaret Barber was a  great example to Watchman Nee in the one matter of paying more attention to life than to work. He realized that God cares for what we are more  than what we do, and his work was according to this principle. He  observed how Miss Barber continually stressed the matter of life, paying almost no attention to her work.

From time to time, he and Miss Barber would go together to listen to a Christian speaker. He always admired  either the speaker's eloquence, knowledge, zeal, ability, or natural  power of persuasion. Then Miss Barber would point out to him that what he admired was neither of life nor of  the Spirit. What he admired might be able to stir people up and motivate them to perform certain works, but it could never minister life to  people. Through such spiritual diagnosis, he was educated to discern and distinguish the difference between life and work. He began to realize  that most of the sermons given by preachers and Christian teachers were  not grains of life but flakes of chaff. He also observed that in most  Christian work, supposedly carried out for Christ, there is very little  life ministered to people. (*Watchman Nee—A Seer of the Divine Revelation in the Present Age,* Chapter 11, Section 1)

#### 18
He told me that when his co-worker, who was five years older than he,  was traveling through the country conducting evangelistic meetings,  Margaret Barber, realizing the peril of popularity, warned him by saying, "If you continue to  travel for evangelistic work, I will not pray for you any longer." She  had the foresight to realize that such work would bring shipwreck to his spiritual life. Eventually, that is exactly what happened. That other  co-worker was distracted from spiritual life to popular work. (*Watchman Nee—A Seer of the Divine Revelation in the Present Age,* Chapter 11, Section 1)

#### 19
In order to keep his fellowship with the Lord untarnished, Watchman Nee learned how to apply the blood of Christ to his situation. He told me that once his conscience was strongly condemning him before God concerning certain things. He could not get through, so he was compelled to seek out Miss Barber for help. After relating his story to her, she said to him, "The blood of Jesus His Son cleanses us" (1 John 1:7). When he told her that he was still under condemnation she repeated to him several times, "The blood of Jesus His Son cleanses us." Eventually, he received light that only the blood of the Lord can keep one's conscience from any kind of condemnation before God. By that fellowship with Miss Barber, he learned that through the cleansing of the Lord's blood it is possible to keep oneself always in the presence of God. (Watchman Nee—A Seer of the Divine Revelation in the Present Age, Chapter 8, Section 3)

#### 20
Disobedience was another thing Watchman Nee dealt with in order to maintain fellowship in the Lord's presence. His experience was that nothing, not even good and spiritual things, can substitute for obedience. For him to obey the Lord meant to cleave to the Lord's purposed will; it did not mean to take His permissive will as Balaam did (Num. 22:2-35). Anything which deviates from the Lord's purposed will is a form of disobedience. For him disobedience was a veil which would separate him from God's presence. He stressed that for him to receive light and revelation from the Lord he needed an unveiled face. Margaret Barber told him, and he passed it on to his close associates, that a small leaf on a tree can block out the full moon from one's sight. Since he realized that disobedience would cause the loss of God's presence, he made it his purpose to obey the Lord's will and the Lord's revelation at any cost. (Watchman Nee—A Seer of the Divine Revelation in the Present Age, Chapter 8, Section 2)

#### 21
He told us about going to Margaret Barber weekly, during his student days, to be rebuked. At those times when there was nothing to rebuke, she would ask questions until some fault was found; then she would rebuke him. He said that through this means he received excellent spiritual instruction. (Watchman Nee—A Seer of the Divine Revelation in the Present Age, Chapter 19, Section 10)

#### 22
Through Margaret Barber he became familiar with the books of D.M. Panton, Robert Govett, G.H. Pember, Jessie Penn-Lewis, T. Austin-Sparks, and others. (Watchman Nee—A Seer of the Divine Revelation in the Present Age, Chapter 4, Section 2)

#### 23
One day I went by boat to Mawei to see Margaret Barber. I asked how she felt about my name being in the Methodist Church's book of life (what they called the church register). She replied, "I am afraid that among the names in that book of life many are dead and not a few are perishing." I said, "Should I have my name in a book of life on earth?" She replied, "If your name is recorded in the book of life in heaven, what good will an earthly book of life do you? And if your name is not recorded in the heavenly book of life, what will this earthly book of life profit you?" (Watchman Nee—A Seer of the Divine Revelation in the Present Age, Chapter 6, Section 3)

#### 24
Though some had been saved, I was still not satisfied, because many in the school and in the town were still not saved. I felt the need to be filled with the Holy Spirit and to receive power from above that I might be able to bring more people to the Lord. Then I called on Miss Margaret Barber. Being immature in spiritual matters, I asked her if it was necessary to be filled with the Holy Spirit in order to obtain power to bring many to salvation. She answered, "Yes." I asked her concerning the means to be filled with the Holy Spirit. She said, "You must present yourself to God that He may fill you with Himself." I replied that I had already presented myself. But when I considered, I knew that I was still my old self. I knew that God had saved me, chosen me, and called me. Though I had not yet attained absolute victory, I had been freed from sins and evil habits, and many matters hitherto entangling me had been abandoned. However, I still felt the lack of spiritual power to cope with spiritual work. Then she told me the following story:

Brother Prigin was an American who had been to China. He had obtained a master's degree and was studying for a Ph.D. Feeling the condition of his spiritual life unsatisfactory, he sought the Lord and prayed. He said to God, "I have very strong unbelief; some sins I cannot overcome, and I have no power to work." For two weeks he asked God specifically to fill him with the Holy Spirit that he might lead a victorious life with power. God said, "Do you really want this? If so, do not take the Ph.D. examination two months from now, for I have no need of a doctor of philosophy." He felt he was in a dilemma. The Ph.D. degree seemed a sure thing; it would be a pity not to sit for the examination. He knelt down to pray and ask why God would not allow him to get the degree and be a minister as well. But here is a strange thing: Once God has made a demand, He sticks to it and never compromises with anyone.

The following two months were most painful. On the last Saturday of that period he experienced real conflict within. Did he want the degree or did he want to be filled with the Holy Spirit? Which was better: a doctor's degree or a victorious life? Others could be doctors and yet be used by God as well—why couldn't he? He was struggling and reasoning with God and was at his wits' end. The Ph.D. was dear to him and so was the filling of the Holy Spirit. But God would not give way. To choose a doctor's degree would make it impossible to live the spiritual life. To live the spiritual life would require forfeiting a doctor's degree. At length, with tears in his eyes, he said, "I submit. Despite my two years' study toward a Ph.D. degree, a goal which I have cherished for thirty years, ever since childhood, I have no alternative but to relinquish sitting for the examination for the sake of submission to God." Following this decision he wrote to notify the university authorities that he would not sit for the examination on Monday, thus abandoning hope for a Ph.D. degree once and for all. He was so exhausted that night that he could find no message to deliver the following day. So he simply told the congregation the story of his surrender to the Lord. On that day the congregation was revived. Three-quarters of them were in tears. He himself also gained strength. He said, "If I had known before that the result would be like this, I would have submitted earlier." His subsequent work was greatly blessed by the Lord, and he was one who had the deepest knowledge of God. (Watchman Nee—A Seer of the Divine Revelation in the Present Age, Chapter 7, Section 2)

#### 25
Watchman Nee then gave this testimony of how he was healed: I had a lung problem, a kidney problem, a liver problem, and a heart problem. In 1923 I had peritonitis. I lay in bed for over a month. Breathing was painful to me. My fever was high and I was in much suffering. Brother Miao asked some saints to come and pray for me. When he prayed I felt nothing. However, when a certain sister, Miss Barber, prayed, "Lord, no one in the grave can praise Thee. If our brother dies, he will not be able to praise Thee," my heart was relieved, even though my fever was still high and I was still in acute pain. When the day dawned, I arose and walked to Lo-Hsing Pagoda to edit an issue of The Christian. If you do not have God's word, you must take care of your body. But if you have God's word, you should ignore the symptom. Treat the symptom as a temptation and a lie. Do not stay with the symptom; stay away from it. (Watchman Nee—A Seer of the Divine Revelation in the Present Age, Chapter 19, Section 8)

#### 26
Sister M. E. Barber, an English woman, is related to the genealogy of the Lord's recovery. When Brother Watchman Nee received the Lord, Sister M. E. Barber had been living in China for more than ten years. Initially, she was a missionary sent by a mission board to China in order to preach the gospel. However, because her co-workers were jealous of her, they fabricated charges against her and presented them to the English mission board. She had learned of the Lord not to vindicate herself. She did not disclose that she had been falsely accused until the chairman of the mission board said to her, “As your authority, I order you to tell me everything and not to hide anything.” After this matter passed, she felt that she could no longer remain with the mission. After another period of time, she felt that she should return to China, and the Lord opened a way for her to go. She came to Foochow at the mouth of the Min River and lived at Bai-Ya-Tan across from Mawei.

The history of the church in China shows that M. E. Barber was the first strong witness in China. She lived purely before the Lord and knew much of the cross and the Lord's life. Her deep experiences are evident in the hymns she wrote. One reads, “If there's less of earth joy, / Give, Lord, more of heaven. / Let the spirit praise Thee, / Though the heart be riven... / Lonely though the pathway, / Cheer it with Thy smile; / Be Thou my companion / Through earth's little while” (Hymns, #377). Another hymn she wrote is “He faileth not, for He is God” (Hymns, #693); this hymn is familiar to many people in Christianity. In addition, she also wrote other hymns, such as “Deep down into the depths of this Thy Name” (Hymns, #671), “Via Bethlehem we journey” (Hymns, #628), and “To the foe my word is always, ‘No'” (Hymns, #880).

Brother Nee not only mentioned Miss Barber in his messages; he also mentioned her a few times when I spoke to him privately. Every time he mentioned her, I received a deep impression. He said that every time he went to see Miss Barber, as he sat in the living room waiting for her, he would sense the presence of the Lord. On one occasion in 1936, as we were discussing the work and the service, Brother Nee sighed and said, “If only Miss Barber were still alive, our condition today would be completely different.” He also once said, “When I visited Europe and America in 1933, I visited spiritual people in both places, but it was not easy to find even one who could compare with Miss Barber. There was only one brother who seemed to be comparable to her.” Brother Nee said this in 1935, only two years after he returned from England. This shows that Miss M. E. Barber was very deep in her relationship with God; she genuinely knew God. She is a very weighty person in our history.

Brother Nee and his mother were both saved through Sister Dora Yu's gospel preaching. Brother Nee's mother was saved first and turned to the Lord, which influenced Brother Nee. Brother Nee was saved in 1920. Not long after his salvation, he and his mother met Miss Barber, and they went together to her home and were baptized by immersion. Brother Nee's mother frequently played mah-jongg prior to her salvation, even though she was a member of the Methodist denomination. However, after she was saved, she changed a great deal. When the two of them, mother and son, were baptized, our history began. From the time of his baptism Brother Nee was clear that Miss M. E. Barber had been prepared by God to lead him. In other words, Brother Nee gave himself completely to Miss Barber for her leading.

A number of other young people around the same age as Brother Nee also went to Miss Barber for her teaching. Regrettably, after a short time they left, one after another, because Miss Barber rebuked people severely. Brother Nee testified that Miss Barber rebuked him severely and even dealt with him unreasonably. However, after he was rebuked, he did not feel uncomfortable; on the contrary, the more he was rebuked, the more he felt the benefit. Thus, he continued to go to her despite the rebukes.

Miss Barber dealt severely with Brother Nee. Brother Nee and one of the other brothers were the most gifted among the young people of their generation; they were the best preachers. However, they usually did not get along, even in simple matters, such as opening and closing a door. Once, they asked Miss Barber who should carry out a baptism. Brother Nee thought that Miss Barber would have him do the baptizing because he had preached the gospel and led the person to the Lord. However, Miss Barber appointed the other brother to do the baptism. Later, Brother Nee asked Miss Barber why she had not allowed him to baptize. Miss Barber answered, “That brother is older than you, so he should do the baptizing.” Since the brother was older, Brother Nee could not say anything in response.

Not long after, there was another baptism meeting, and there were three brothers present who could baptize—Brother Nee, the older brother, and the third brother who was the eldest of the three. Brother Nee thought that according to age, the eldest brother would do the baptizing. Brother Nee wanted to see how Miss Barber would handle this matter. Miss Barber, however, appointed the same brother who had baptized the previous time. Brother Nee did not agree and went again to question Miss Barber. She answered, “I want to do it this way.” This seemed unreasonable, and Brother Nee could not take it. However, he later testified that Miss Barber's unreasonable dealings with him enabled him to receive the Lord's grace and mercy to place himself before her, because he knew that he could get much help from her.

After a few years Brother Nee and Miss Barber knew each other well and had deep fellowship; their affection for each other in the Lord was very deep and broad. When Miss Barber passed away in 1930, she left almost all her spiritual books, writings, letters, and Bibles to Brother Nee. Brother Nee said that if anyone were to write a biography of Miss Barber, he would be the best person to do it. He wanted to write Miss Barber's biography because he thought it would help the brothers and sisters in China. Regrettably, the Lord never gave him the opportunity to do this. Miss M. E. Barber is a seed in our history that grew in Brother Nee. Thus, when we speak of the history among us, we cannot avoid speaking of her.
(Three Aspects of the Church, Book 2: The Course of the Church, Chapter 17, Section 1)

#### 27
Although the Baptist Church existed and sent brothers to China who baptized people, the battle for the truth concerning baptism did not really begin until God raised us up in China. Brother Nee's family first belonged to the Methodist denomination, in which they were sprinkled. After they were clearly saved and saw in God's Word the truth of baptism by immersion, they went to fellowship about it with Miss M. E. Barber. Miss Barber had already seen this matter. She brought this recovery concerning baptism to Foochow, and Brother Nee was baptized by immersion there in March 1921. From that time onward, baptism has been an important item of recovery among us.
(Three Aspects of the Church, Book 2: The Course of the Church, Chapter 19, Section 2)

#### 28
After Brother Nee's conversion, he came in contact with an older sister by the name of M. E. Barber. Miss Barber was about sixty years old when Brother Nee met her. She was from England. When she was young, around thirty years old, she was sent by an Anglican mission to Brother Nee's province in China. While she was there, her co-missionaries fabricated a case against her because of their jealousy of her. Because of these false reports, the mission board called her back.

She was a person who knew the Lord in a living way, and she was always exercising to learn the lessons of the cross. When she returned, she made a decision not to say a word in vindication of herself. She stayed in England for a number of years. At a certain point, the chairman of the mission board came to realize that she had been accused falsely. He asked her to tell him the truth. He said to Miss Barber, “I know you are learning the lessons of the cross and that you would not say anything for yourself. Since you have learned something of the Lord's authority, I am asking you as one of your authorities to tell me the truth.'' Thus, Miss Barber took this standing to tell the truth concerning her case. She was vindicated, and the board immediately made the decision to send her back.

Before that time, she began to know the way of the Lord concerning His church. She came in contact with D. M. Panton, who was a student of the great teacher Robert Govett. Brother Panton came to know the evils of denominationalism, and he met with a group of others outside of the denominations. In today's light we can see that he was not so clear, on the positive side, concerning the proper practice of the proper church life, but he was very clear, on the negative side, concerning denominationalism. After Miss Barber contacted D. M. Panton's group, she became clear about denominations. Then she resigned from her post as a missionary in the Anglican mission. After much prayer she became clear that the Lord would send her back to China according to His leading and not through any mission. She went back to China, in human terms, on her own. She went back on her own to work for the Lord, and she selected a very small town just outside of Brother Nee's hometown, Foochow. The suburban town where she stayed was called Pagoda. Miss Barber stayed there without traveling much and without any advertisement. She just stayed there and prayed day and night.
(The History of the Church and the Local Churches, Chapter 4, Section 1)

Brother Nee came in contact with her soon after his conversion, and he received so much help from her. He spent at least several times with me personally to tell me the things concerning his relationship with Miss Barber. Initially, Brother Nee was among a group of young brothers and sisters who had just been saved and went to contact Miss Barber. Miss Barber was deep and also very strict. In her strictness she used to rebuke the ones under her perfecting. Eventually, the only one who still went to see Miss Barber after a period of time was Brother Nee. Brother Nee told me that whenever he went to her, he was always rebuked. He told me that the more she rebuked him, the more he sent himself to her for her rebuking. He said that he did this because he received the help from her.

In 1936 I was invited to the central part of China. After a few days Brother Nee was also invited there, and we stayed together. He said to me, “Brother Lee, if Miss Barber were still living, we would be much better than what we are today.'' Then he said, “In 1933 I went to Europe to visit many spiritual persons. In my being, according to my weighing, no spiritual person whom I visited in the Western world at that time could compare spiritually with Miss Barber.'' This shows us the kind of preparation the Lord made for Brother Nee as His gift, His servant.

Miss Barber went to the Lord in 1929. That was nearly the same year in which Brother Nee finished his writing of The Spiritual Man. Miss Barber, in her will, gave all her things to Brother Nee. Of course, she did not have many personal things, but she willed Brother Nee her Bible with all her notes in it. That was very precious. Later, Brother Nee told me that he was thinking of writing a biography of M. E. Barber, but he could not find the time to do it. It was a real loss to us that Brother Nee never found the time to write such a biography. If he had been able to do this, it would have been a great help to us even today.

According to what Brother Nee told me, Sister Barber was a person who always lived in the presence of the Lord. One day Brother Nee went to see her. She was in another room while he was waiting in the living room. He told me that while he was waiting there, he had a deep sense of the Lord's presence there. She was a deep person in the Lord, and she composed a number of excellent hymns that are in our hymnal. All her hymns were very deep in the Lord.

Furthermore, day by day she was waiting for the Lord's coming back. On the last day of 1926, she was taking a walk with Brother Nee. When they turned the corner to another street, she said to Brother Nee, “Maybe as we turn this corner, we will meet Him.'' She was a person waiting for the Lord's return. She lived and walked in the presence of our returning Lord. I never met her, but after I heard what Brother Nee told me, I received a great help.

It was through M. E. Barber that he received the foundation of his spiritual life. Brother Nee would tell people that it was through a sister that he got saved, and it was also through a sister that he was edified. As a British person from the Western world, Sister Barber came to know the famous spiritual giants in Christianity at her time. Through Sister Barber, Brother Nee came to know the top spiritual books by people such as Robert Govett, D. M. Panton, and Jessie Penn-Lewis. The best publications on the exposition of the Bible and church history were introduced to Brother Nee through her.
(The History of the Church and the Local Churches, Chapter 4, Section 2)

#### 29
Miss M. E. Barber once wrote a hymn that says:

>    There is always something over,
>    
>    When we taste our gracious Lord;
>    
>    Every cup He fills o'erfloweth,
>    
>    Rich supply He doth afford.
>    
>    Nothing narrow, nothing stinted,
>    
>    Ever issued from His store;
>    
>    To His own He gives full measure,
>    
>    Running over, evermore,
>    
>    To His own He gives full measure,
>    
>    Running over, evermore.
>    
>
>    (Hymns, #595, stanza one)
(Messages Given During the Resumption of Watchman Nee's Ministry (2 volume set), Chapter 2, Section 1)

#### 30
Around 1921, there were about fifty students in Trinity College in Foochow. They all became Christians through my preaching. At that time, I was trying to use Miss Barber's baptistry to baptize them. Miss Barber asked who the baptizer would be. I told her that the Bible indicates that whoever preaches to another is qualified to baptize that one. Miss Barber said that it was better to let Leland Wang baptize these ones because he was older than I was. Later I tried to recommend Brother Dan-wu Wu, for he was twelve years older than I was, and he was of course older than Leland Wang. However, Miss Barber insisted that Leland should be the baptizer. When I brought up the matter of age, Miss Barber remained unchanged about her choice. I then said, "Since you had already made up your mind in the first place to have Leland do the baptizing, why did you bring up the matter of age?" In spite of this, I was not caused to stumble.

Once Miss Barber wrote me a letter and told me definitely not to come to one of her meetings. Nevertheless, when the time of the meeting came, I went, by forcing my way through the door, so to speak. When Miss Barber saw me, she said, "It is so good that you have come. I have many things to talk over with you. I need your help." In this instance, I was not caused to stumble by Miss Barber either.
(Messages Given During the Resumption of Watchman Nee's Ministry (2 volume set), Chapter 2, Section 2)

#### 31
In 1926 at White Teeth Lake, one day I saw an article by Mr. Jeffrey in the magazine Witness and Testimony. After Miss Barber saw that same article, she told me that Mr. Jeffrey would soon be separated from us. I did not quite agree with her, and I said to her, "You just like to make big assertions and outlandish remarks. This is your temperament." However, after one or two months, Mr. Jeffrey did indeed separate himself from us. Later, when I was in India, I met him and asked why he left. I told him what Miss Barber had told me. After he heard those words, he resolved to take care of the problem on that very day. Immediately, he bought a ticket and sailed home to England to apologize to Mr. Sparks, because at the time he left the latter, he had spoken something against him. Today, men are easily caused to stumble by small things. We need the grace of the Lord that we will not be caused to stumble by anything or anyone.

(Messages Given During the Resumption of Watchman Nee's Ministry (2 volume set), Chapter 2, Section 2)

#### 32
In 1926 at White Teeth Lake, one day I saw an article by Mr. Jeffrey in the magazine Witness and Testimony. After Miss Barber saw that same article, she told me that Mr. Jeffrey would soon be separated from us. I did not quite agree with her, and I said to her, "You just like to make big assertions and outlandish remarks. This is your temperament." However, after one or two months, Mr. Jeffrey did indeed separate himself from us. Later, when I was in India, I met him and asked why he left. I told him what Miss Barber had told me. After he heard those words, he resolved to take care of the problem on that very day. Immediately, he bought a ticket and sailed home to England to apologize to Mr. Sparks, because at the time he left the latter, he had spoken something against him. Today, men are easily caused to stumble by small things. We need the grace of the Lord that we will not be caused to stumble by anything or anyone.

(Messages Given During the Resumption of Watchman Nee's Ministry (2 volume set), Chapter 2, Section 2)

#### 33
It was not until Brother T. Austin-Sparks wrote about resurrection in 1926 and published what he wrote in the Overcomer magazine that the world knew for the first time what resurrection is. When Miss Barber and I read his writings, we began to pay attention to this matter.
(Messages Given During the Resumption of Watchman Nee's Ministry (2 volume set), Chapter 43, Section 4)


#### 34
Miss Barber was a person who truly waited for the Lord's return. She waited daily and yearly. Hymns, #377, is a deep hymn and was written by her. It shows the kind of person she was. Whenever a person came into her presence, that one would sense Christ. She was a person who earnestly waited for the Lord's return. One day, I went into her study room and found her wastebasket filled with wastepapers. She told me that she was working on a letter that morning, and that before she finished it, she felt something wrong within and had to throw the letter away. After this she wrote a second one, only to find that she did not have the peace either, and she had to throw that one away also. In this way, she filled up her wastebasket with wastepapers, and the letter was still not finished. This little incident proves that she was a person who lived in the presence of the Lord.
(Messages Given During the Resumption of Watchman Nee's Ministry (2 volume set), Chapter 49, Section 2)

#### 35
During the Boxer Rebellion in 1900, many Christians were martyred. At the same time that this was going on, many churches around the world had the feeling that something was happening. Many people were depressed in their spirit for many days, and they felt the need for prayer. This feeling was not something that came from the physical eyes or the ears. It was a feeling of the Body. Who can say that the faithful martyrs were not supplied during those hours by the effect of these prayers? Miss Barber was in England at that time, and she was oppressed in her spirit. She felt the need to pray. Soon after that, she found out what had happened.

(Messages Given During the Resumption of Watchman Nee's Ministry (2 volume set), Chapter 44, Section 8)

#### 36
In 1925 I was in the midst of publishing the second issue of The Christian, covering Daniel, 2 Thessalonians, and Revelation. At that time I was not very knowledgeable concerning the prophecies, and I wrote about them in a very brief way. I attached to it a preface and sent it to the printer. I felt very good about it and did not have much regret about printing it. Moreover, I received over three hundred responses from readers telling me that they had liked it and received help, encouragement, and admonition from it. I felt quite proud of myself. One day, as I was with Miss Barber, I asked, "Have you received a copy of The Christian that I edited? What do you think of its content?" She was not interested in this at all, talking only about her tea and cakes. I tried a few more times to draw her attention to my magazine, but she kept on talking about tea, cakes, and candies. When I was about to leave, she said one word to me, "Brother, one day you will discover that good things are not necessarily good." I asked if she was referring to the second issue of The Christian, and she said yes. She continued, saying, "If I had to put out ten issues of The Christian, I would not put those things in one of them. I would write on something else." At that time I did not appreciate what she said. But day after day, I began to realize that it is not how much we can produce and achieve, but how much God has done. Everything that issues from man is futile, whether it is human wisdom or human power.

One time I took a sister to visit Miss Barber. The sister did something wrong, and after Miss Barber spoke with her, she cried from morning until the afternoon. I went back and asked Miss Barber, "Do you know that she has been crying?" I thought that her repentance was wonderful. But after Miss Barber heard my word, her reaction was very cold. I tried my best to describe how repentant the sister was, but Miss Barber replied, "She is pitying herself! I do not like to help this kind of person." At that time I could not quite take these words. I felt that Miss Barber was compassionless, uncaring, and unsympathetic toward others. But after a year or two I found that she was right. I thought that repentance, tears, weeping, and remorse for one's own sins were the right things to have. But she was able to discriminate between good and evil. This is not a matter of criticism or compassion, but a matter of seeing or not seeing. The one who had the vision had the spiritual knowledge of good and evil, but I did not have it.

Once I took over sixty co-workers to see Miss Barber. She said "If five or six from among these ones remain to follow the Lord, we should be thankful and praise the Lord." In reflecting on her words today, I can see that it is just about that number that are still following the Lord in a genuine way.

Miss Barber possessed this spiritual ability to discriminate between good and evil. The good and evil that I am speaking of here are different from the good and evil that ordinary men speak of. In many instances what is good and evil to man may be exactly the opposite in the eyes of God. Those who are good at criticizing others often have a wrong spirit. But those who have the knowledge of good and evil have the right eyes for things. Because their eyes have seen the light, their words are a kind of spiritual discernment rather than a kind of criticism.

(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 2) Vol. 45: Conferences, Messages, and Fellowship (5), Chapter 34, Section 2)

#### 37
In 1920 I spent a great deal of time studying the coming of Christ. I thought that I could have had a Ph.D. in this subject. A year later I met Sister M. E. Barber. One afternoon, we were on this important subject, and we spent quite a few hours talking about it. By the end we were still not through with it. She wanted me to stay behind to talk about it some more, but I did not accept the offer. Before I left she said, "You hide your disagreements in your heart and launder your politeness out in the front." I admitted that what I knew concerning the Lord's coming was merely outward knowledge. I studied and researched His coming, but Sister Barber was a person who waited for His coming. I was an earthen vessel, while she was a vessel of gold and silver. She was rich, and I was poor.

(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 2) Vol. 45: Conferences, Messages, and Fellowship (5), Chapter 24, Section 1)

#### 38
For a period of time I was quite unhappy with Miss Barber for taking a three-month summer vacation every year and spending two hours every afternoon on a walk. She asked me, "Do you think that I should take care of man's criticism, while ignoring God's will?" When I heard this, I worried about her, and thought that this was dangerous. I thought, "How can you say that everything you do is according to God's will?" But I also knew that she was a person who feared God. She wanted everything to be of God. She did not do anything carelessly, and she always carefully sought after God's will. Once she became clear concerning God's will, she would not care for any human feeling, concept, or criticism. Of course, a fleshly person has no place in this discussion. A fleshly person can say that he is afraid of no one, not even the church, the brothers and sisters, his parents, heaven, earth, or God. Such a one is actually living in complete darkness.

Once Miss Barber would not accept two hundred dollars from a professor (who appeared to be saved). She wrote a letter to him saying, "I cannot accept your money because you are associated with a university that does not resemble anything Christian." I thought that it was impolite for her to do this. But a man who fears God can be very tough and at the same time be very humble. What matters is whether or not he fears God and knows His will.
(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 2) Vol. 45: Conferences, Messages, and Fellowship (5), Chapter 35, Section 1)

#### 39
I once asked Miss M. E. Barber if there were any books on the cross that I could read. She answered, "Yes. But at your present stage, you cannot read them, and it would be unprofitable for you to read them." I could not hold back my curiosity, and a few days later I learned the names of the books in the course of our conversation. Later, someone gave me copies of those books, and I read right through them. On the one hand, I got some help, but on the other hand, I was greatly disappointed because the books did not answer my questions concerning the cross. I wished that the books had been written in a systematic way, but they were not written this way. My mind tried to sort out the theology and the doctrines, but God was trying to give me life. The books by Madam Guyon, which Brother Yu translated, do not contain much Bible exposition. But after one reads them, he receives the help. When one reads these books, he gets nourishment in life. But when he reads books on knowledge, he receives no nourishment in life. As servants of the Lord we should supply others with life and should not merely teach others doctrines.
(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 2) Vol. 45: Conferences, Messages, and Fellowship (5), Chapter 19, Section 2)

#### 40
In 1926 I intended to work in a certain place. I felt that I should not go, but I went anyway. I could not say that I was rebelling against the Lord, but neither could I say that I was obeying Him. I did not find peace and could not pray. I could only utter some formal prayers and read the Word in a ritualistic way. The result of the work was good and many people were saved, but I was grieving. It was Sister Barber's wish that I not leave Foochow, but when someone wrote to her and told her of the result of the work, she commended me for the first time. However, I still did not feel at ease. I was working by the gifts that God had given me; I considered these gifts as things. They were merely things and not Christ. Today I can say that my gift is just Christ. This gift is a person. If I am related to the gifts without being related to Christ, the gifts will only be things. Although the Corinthian believers had gifts, their gifts were dead because Christ was not there.
(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 2) Vol. 45: Conferences, Messages, and Fellowship (5), Chapter 25, Section 2)

#### 41
Later Brother Nee met Sister M. E. Barber and was taught under her. Sister Barber was very strict. At the time more than sixty young brothers and sisters went to Sister Barber to receive spiritual edification. Miss Barber rebuked every one of them severely, such that eventually they all left; only Brother Nee remained. Brother Nee often went to Miss Barber even though he knew that he would be rebuked. Sometimes he would argue with her. At one time he was contending with Brother Wang. When Sister Barber heard of this, she dealt with Brother Nee. Sister Barber asked Brother Wang to do many things. When Brother Nee challenged Sister Barber, she would reply, “He is older than you by a few years.” One time a number of people were going to be baptized, and Sister Barber asked Brother Wang to perform the baptism even though another brother, who was older than Brother Wang, was present. When Brother Nee pointed this out to Sister Barber, she only repeated that Brother Wang should do it. Because Sister Barber realized that Brother Nee was good material, she continually dealt with him and at the same time also supplied him. Brother Nee later testified that he received genuine perfecting from Sister Barber. He was constantly rebuked, but he was not disheartened, because Sister Barber not only rebuked him but also supplied him. As a result, Brother Nee was the only one under the hand of Sister Barber who was truly useful.
(Shepherding the Church and Perfecting the Young People, Chapter 2, Section 6)

#### 42
Miss Barber used to carry a walking stick and take a walk every afternoon for an hour or two. Some criticized her for indulging in sightseeing. When I told her about this, she asked me, "Does a Christian live by what others say or by what he knows?" At that time I did not know what this meant. In her early days Miss Barber returned to England once every three or five years. After she moved to Lo-hsing Pagoda, very few people visited her. She stayed there for eighteen years. She knew that it was God's will that she take a walk for an hour or two every day. She was aware of the criticisms against her. However, she would not resort to human politics; rather, she trusted in the simplicity of God. She did not explain or vindicate herself but only acted according to God's will.
(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 2) Vol. 44: Conferences, Messages, and Fellowship (4), Chapter 25, Section 1)

#### 43
Once Miss Barber dealt with a troubled sister in a very severe way. The sister cried bitterly. When I saw this, I asked Miss Barber why she rebuked the sister in such a strong way. She asked, "Is this sister crying for the Lord or is she crying for herself?" Miss Barber was very absolute for God. She did not care for human sentiment and would not do anything to save others' faces. She truly lived by God's singleness and sincerity.
(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 2) Vol. 44: Conferences, Messages, and Fellowship (4), Chapter 25, Section 1)

#### 44
Soon after I was saved, I became very interested in Bible exposition. I studied the different ways to outline the Scriptures. I studied the different ways to quote Scriptures and use parables. When I listened to others' messages, I would criticize them and label them good or bad, right or wrong. I tried to collect more material from others so that I could be as good as they were. Even in listening to Miss Barber, I held the same attitude. Many times I did not appreciate the messages of others. At that time I could not tell the difference between life and death. I thought that the most important thing was logic and teaching. After listening to Miss Barber for two years, I was invited once by her to speak. She wanted to see how well I spoke. I did my best to prepare for it; I felt good about my own speaking. The ideas were clear, the logic lucid, the explanations thorough, and the examples appropriate. After I delivered my message, I thought she would surely commend me a little. But she did not say a word and acted as if nothing had happened. I said in my heart, "Even if the message was not good, you should say something about it." But she simply did not mention it at all. One day, as I was walking with her in the courtyard, she turned to me and said, "If you realize someday that ideas alone are not good enough, it will be a wonderful day." I was puzzled by what she said, and I did not appreciate it. I said in my heart, "Didn't you use illustrations and quote Scriptures in your sermons? What is the difference?" At that time I did not understand what she meant, but today I do. There was life in her messages, but there were only ideas without life in my messages. Her words caused others to touch life, while my words only caused others to touch knowledge.

Once I invited a doctor of theology to Miss Barber's meeting and asked that he be given the opportunity to speak, and I translated for him. After the message I asked Miss Barber, "How was it?" She said, "It was sad!" I asked her why, and she pointed to a door that was chained shut and said, "Something good, but not moving." I was again upset by her remark. I told another brother, "This man has spoken only once. Can she possibly know all about him?" But today I know what she was talking about. Everything depends on life. If there is no life, all we have is death.
(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 2) Vol. 44: Conferences, Messages, and Fellowship (4), Chapter 30, Section 1)

#### 45
After I was saved, I became interested in the subject of the Lord's coming. In the beginning I studied Daniel. Later, I studied Revelation. I studied them day and night, even at bedtime and mealtime. Later, I met Miss Barber, and in the course of our conversation, I found out that her attitude towards the Lord's coming was different from mine. One day while we were fellowshipping, she showed me some verses about the Lord's coming and the end time. After she finished reading those verses to me, she asked whether I understood them. At that time I did not appreciate what she was doing. I felt that I knew more than she did. Within me there were two thoughts. I felt that I was more familiar with the Scriptures concerning the Lord's coming than she was. She took a long time to find the verses, but I could memorize the verses. However, I also felt that the Lord's coming did not produce the same effect on me that it did on Miss Barber. Her whole living was filled with the thought of the Lord's second coming. The difference between these two realizations of the truth concerning the Lord's second coming was that one was honorable and the other was dishonorable.
(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 2) Vol. 44: Conferences, Messages, and Fellowship (4), Chapter 37, Section 2)

#### 46
Miss Barber was such a person. As soon as others touched her, they touched life. If you sat down and fellowshipped with her for a minute or two, you would feel life flowing out of her. If a person with life sits beside you, his very presence will bring life to you. Today God is seeking people into whom He can dispense Christ's life more and more so that they can supply others with His life. Life needs channels, and God wants men to be the channels through which His life can flow to others. May the Lord gain us so that we can have a life-supplying ministry and supply others with life.

(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 2) Vol. 44: Conferences, Messages, and Fellowship (4), Chapter 23, Section 1)

#### 47
At the beginning of my service to the Lord, Brother Leland Wang and I were together much of the time. He and I always argued with each other. There are many stories about the two of us. Today after so many years, I can speak of some of these things with few personal feelings. At that time I was seventeen or eighteen years old. We visited Miss M. E. Barber quite often. Whenever I went to her, I accused Leland. This occurred forty or fifty times. Miss Barber did not agree with me once. One time I went with many proofs of Leland's mistakes. Even Leland's wife persuaded him to stay away from Miss Barber at White Teeth Lake because she realized that Leland was wrong. But after I told Miss Barber everything, she still insisted that I was wrong. Although the things she said were not true, in the end I had to say that she was right. I was right according to the standard of outward conduct, but I was wrong in my inner man.

The three years that I spent at White Teeth Lake were very profitable times of training for me. Once, someone was ready for baptism. Among three brothers, I was the youngest. Leland was two years older than me, and the other one, Brother Wu, was seven years older than Leland. I was told by Miss Barber that I had to listen to Leland because he was two years older than me. I thought that Leland should surely listen to the brother who was seven years older than him, but he did not. I became indignant and complained. I felt that there was no justice in this whole episode. I went to Miss Barber to point out Leland's mistake. For half an hour to an hour I was filled with righteous indignation. I was young and could not contain my fleshly indignation. I kept talking for a long time. Eventually, Miss Barber said, "For the past few months, you have been coming to me to complain about Leland's mistakes. What if I were to say that Leland was wrong? What good would that do you? Are you here to fight for your right or are you here to bear the cross?" After a minute of silence she spoke again, saying, "Look at you! Is this the attitude of the Lamb?" She then spoke to me loudly and called me by my name: "Watchman Nee! Is this the way to bear the cross?" Immediately, I began to cry. I was crushed. From that day onward, I dared not accuse anyone. I feel that I owe this sister quite much. Today I do not have such an opportunity to learn such precious lessons. Although I suffered much under her hand, those dealings were a great blessing to me.

Brothers, this is the way our work must take. It is not a matter of dealing with right and wrong but a matter of dealing with others' spirit. Miss Barber was not a person in the realm of right and wrong. She was able to discern my whole being. Outwardly speaking, I was angry with her, but my inner man was subdued by her. In working for the Lord, we should not busy ourselves with reasoning, arguments, right, wrong, good, or evil. We are here to know men's spirit, to touch their spirit, and to cultivate their spirit. This is the lesson that we have to learn.

(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 3) Vol. 59: Miscellaneous Records of the Kuling Training (1), Chapter 4, Section 2)

#### 48
Miss M. E. Barber was astute and quick, but one did not feel her astuteness or her natural quickness. These traits were broken in her.
(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 3) Vol. 59: Miscellaneous Records of the Kuling Training (1), Chapter 3, Section 2)

#### 49
After he was saved, Brother Nee received great help from a sister named Margaret E. Barber. Miss Barber had a co-worker named Miss Gross. Both Miss Barber and Miss Gross were missionaries who had come from Britain to China. However, by the time Brother Nee was saved, they had left their missions and were in China living by faith in God. Because Brother Nee received so much help from Miss Barber, Miss Gross also came to know him. Since Brother Nee was under the helping hand of Miss Barber, he was simultaneously also under the help of Miss Gross. In 1929 Miss Barber went to be with the Lord, and Miss Gross remained and moved to Shanghai. One day Miss Gross heard the report that a woman was living with Brother Nee, and she came to him to check with him about this. Brother Nee was still single, and, like Miss Barber, Miss Gross, as an elderly sister, loved him and was very concerned about him. Miss Gross said, "I have heard that a woman is staying with you. Is this true?" When Brother Nee answered, "Yes," Miss Gross rebuked him, asking how he, a single young man, could have a woman staying with him. Brother Nee related this incident to me himself to help me understand something about self-vindication. He told me that he was happy to be rebuked. He also told me that the woman staying with him was his mother. He said this, not to vindicate himself, but to render some help to me. When I asked Brother Nee why he did not tell Miss Gross about this, he replied, "She didn't ask me who the woman was. She only asked whether or not a woman was staying with me. When I told her that a woman was living with me, she rebuked me. I didn't say anything." This is one illustration of the rumors spread about Brother Nee.
(Life-Study of Genesis, Chapter 105, Section 3)

#### 50
A brother in Shanghai had a fierce look when he first came to Shanghai. I tried to get to know him and found out that he had a bad temper. However, his complexion changed after a few years. He became a soft person, and his character changed. A man's facial expression is a reflection of the person himself. One's inward character is often manifested through his facial expressions. Several times Miss Barber seemed to be speaking like a fortune-teller about certain brothers. Eventually, we found out that what she said was exactly what had happened. For example, a brother once took shelter in a Buddhist temple for a night. When Miss Barber saw this brother, she said that darkness was written all over his face. He must have been exposed to the power of darkness. Later someone asked him, and he confessed to Miss Barber's words. Sometimes I can tell a person's condition from his appearance. (I am not saying that I can predict.) A person's facial expressions are very much related to his inward condition.

(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 2) Vol. 41: Conferences, Messages, and Fellowship (1), Chapter 32, Section 1)

#### 51
Miss Barber used to tell others that from her youth through her old age she had an eternal hunger for God. She told others that whenever her eyes were not set on the Lord, she would not feel hungry. But whenever her eyes were set on the Lord, she would be continually hungry before the Lord. She was hungry continually, and the Lord filled her continually. 
(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 2) Vol. 41: Conferences, Messages, and Fellowship (1), Chapter 12, Section 1)

#### 52
When I first read Sister Dora Yu's book, The Prayer Life, and saw two chapters on the Lord's coming, I was stirred up to study the prophecies in Daniel and Revelation very much. Later I met Miss M.E. Barber, who did not talk about the prophecies of the Lord's coming at all. I was very proud and thought that I understood much about prophecy. Yet in the course of our conversation, I found that she was the one who was truly waiting for the Lord's coming. My studying was genuine, but my waiting was not. I studied about the Lord's coming, but I was not waiting for it. However, she not only studied the prophecies of the Lord's coming, but she was genuinely waiting for it. Her studying and her waiting were both genuine.
(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 2) Vol. 41: Conferences, Messages, and Fellowship (1), Chapter 9, Section 2)


#### 53
In 1922 Miss Barber explained the book, More Than Conquerors, by Jessie Penn-Lewis to me. She often said, "We need her to tell us about her experience of the cross." I was quite puzzled and could not understand what she was talking about. Later I gradually learned that a man does not need the doctrine of victory and of being more than conquerors, but the experience of the cross. A man will have the genuine experience of victory only after he has accepted the cross.
(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 2) Vol. 41: Conferences, Messages, and Fellowship (1), Chapter 9, Section 2)

#### 54
Ten years ago I was with Miss Barber on a hill in Pai-Ya-Tan. We spent three hours walking together. On our way back I asked, "Many people say that you like to hike. Is that true?" She asked, "What do they say?" I said, "They say that they see you hiking all the time." She said, "It is easy for me to stop hiking. I have been away from England for over ten years, and I do not intend to go back. I intend to die here. Every day I like to take a little walk. I prayed about it and became clear that this is what the Lord wants me to do. It would be easy for me to avoid this criticism of my hiking, but if this is what God wants me to do, it would be hard for man to stop me from doing it."

I noticed that Miss Barber had better food than many unbelievers, and I mentioned this to her. She said, "My friend, it is not a question of eating well or not eating well. It is just as easy for me to eat well as to not eat well. But I pray over every dollar that I spend on my food every month. God takes responsibility for my food and for how good it is; I am not responsible for it." God's will is better than our sacrifice. We may think that sacrifice and sufferings are good. We may think that everything will be all right as long as we offer good things to God. But what does God say? Our mind does not need to worry about what to do for God. All we have to do is to obey His commandment.

(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 2) Vol. 42: Conferences, Messages, and Fellowship (2), Chapter 14, Section 4)


#### 55
Many who know Miss Barber can testify that she was very different from others. Whenever someone went to her and sat in front of her, spontaneously he would realize how much he was off. He would realize that he did not have what she had and would aspire for what she had. Fifteen years ago (1921) when I first became a Christian, I was very proud. I thought highly of myself because I was able to read one or two chapters of the Bible a day with some understanding. (Very few people are proud outwardly; most people are proud inwardly.) I went to her to tell her about this. After I prayed a few words with her, I saw my pride before she even opened her mouth to rebuke me. I knew that I did not have what she had. This is foot-washing. My feet were washed by her presence. I met God. Prior to that I was living outside of God, and I was old and dark. But once I came to her, I was refreshed and enlightened. I often felt that I was washed by her presence. We often have the same sensation—we feel that we are washed after talking to certain brothers. Our spiritual energy is revived; we can touch and feel God once more. This is foot-washing.

(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 2) Vol. 42: Conferences, Messages, and Fellowship (2), Chapter 2, Section 5)

#### 56
A few months before Miss Barber died, I went to see her and spoke with her for a long time. I wondered why this sister had such profound spiritual experiences. I wanted to know the reason for this. I asked her why the Lord had been so gracious to her. She answered, "I do not know. I only know that I have always been hungry and I have always been eating. Since I was nine, I have always been hungry; I have never been content before the Lord for these many years. I might have received grace and revelation yesterday, but today I say to God, `You have more, and I want more. I want more all the time.' I am forever hungry and yet at the same time forever satisfied." Her spiritual attainment was so deep that few have even scratched the surface of it.
(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 2) Vol. 42: Conferences, Messages, and Fellowship (2), Chapter 4, Section 2)

#### 57
Once I was taking a walk with Miss Barber in a garden. After some time the two of us became tired, and we sat down on some chairs under a tree. She said, "There is a bright star in the sky, but I cannot see it because a leaf has blocked the view. Brother Nee, if someone comes and tells me many ways to see the star, I still could not see it even though the ways he said were good. The reason is that my position is wrong; I am standing on the wrong ground." The words she said that night are still fresh in my mind today. She explained that a little leaf could block the light of a big star. Many times, God's will is frustrated by very small things. When you seek after God's will again and again and are still unclear, you should not change the method, but change the person. If you find that you cannot know God's will, it means that there is some blockage between you and God. It may be that God has spoken to you already, but that you are unwilling to obey Him. You have to remove these hindrances. After you have dealt with these problems thoroughly, you will know God's will. In knowing God's will, we have to pay attention to the person rather than the methods.

(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 2) Vol. 42: Conferences, Messages, and Fellowship (2), Chapter 5, Section 3)

#### 58
Miss Barber once wrote the following words in her Bible beside the passage in Matthew that says we should love the Lord our God with our whole heart, soul, and will: "Lord, I thank You for this commandment." She knew that the Lord was the One who could accomplish this. The commandments in the Bible can only be fulfilled by Christ. Thank and praise the Lord. Christ is our life, and He is our victory.

(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 2) Vol. 42: Conferences, Messages, and Fellowship (2), Chapter 27, Section 4)

#### 59
Miss Barber wrote in one of her hymns: "Let the spirit praise Thee,/Though the heart be riven" (Hymns, #377). This was spoken by one who truly knew God and who truly knew the cross.

(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 2) Vol. 42: Conferences, Messages, and Fellowship (2), Chapter 31, Section 3)

#### 60
When Brother Watchman Nee was a young man, M. E. Barber, an older sister in the Lord, helped him to the uttermost. Brother Nee went with Sister Barber a number of times to hear certain preachers and Bible teachers. After hearing a message that Brother Nee thought was wonderful, he asked Sister Barber what she thought. Sister Barber told him that the message was an empty shell full of eloquence without the content of life. In other words, within the person's eloquent speaking there was not the Lord's speaking. This happened quite often with Brother Nee and Sister Barber. One day they went to listen to an ineloquent speaker of whom Brother Nee had a very poor impression. After that speaker's message, Sister Barber told Brother Nee that this person had something of Christ and the cross. By this Brother Nee learned to take care of the treasure in a person's speaking. When we speak, we should look to the Lord that in our speaking He would speak.

(Speaking Christ for the Building Up of the Body of Christ, Chapter 10, Section 2)

#### 61
Concerning this matter, I can never forget the help that I received from Brother Watchman Nee about thirty years ago. One day he spoke with me, saying, “Brother Lee, when I was very young, a little more than twenty years of age, I was under the help of an elderly sister, Miss M. E. Barber. Many times when famous preachers with prominent titles came to our town, Miss Barber would bring me with her, and at other times I would ask her to go with me to listen to these world-famous preachers. The first time we went, in my heart I truly appreciated the preacher. I felt that he was very eloquent, smart, and knowledgeable, and I truly admired him. Then the next day when I sat with Miss Barber in her living room, she asked me what I thought about the preacher the previous night. I said, ‘He is wonderful!' She went on to ask, ‘Wonderful in what?' I said, ‘He is surely wonderful in knowledge, in ability, in eloquence, and so forth.' Then she asked, ‘What is that? Is that something that is Christ Himself? Is that something that comes out of the inner fellowship? Can you realize whether the speaker is really one who is in fellowship with Christ?'” Brother Nee told me that after being asked in that way, he simply had nothing to say except one word: no. Was that something that is Christ Himself? No. Was that something from the inner fellowship? No. Was that speaker in fellowship with Christ? No.

After a certain time another speaker came. This one was more famous than all the ones who had come before. Brother Nee went to Miss Barber and asked her to go with him to listen to that big speaker. While they were listening, Brother Nee was really happy and said within himself, “Miss Barber, this time you have to be convinced. Here is something really bigger and better.” After they came back, Brother Nee had no patience to wait until the next day. He right away asked her, “What about this one?” Miss Barber calmly asked him, “Is this one in the fellowship of the Lord?” Brother Nee told me that her question simply made him clear, and he had to answer, “No.” Since that time I have been greatly helped. I may speak very well and I may preach richly, yet there is the possibility that I am not in the fellowship of the Lord. That kind of preaching is a preaching of gift, not a preaching of Christ Himself. Anything that is of Christ, even as Christ Himself, must be in the fellowship of Christ. You must be in the fellowship of Christ. You must have a living contact with Christ.

(The Central Thought of God, Chapter 8, Section 1)

#### 62
On the morning of March 28, 1921, my mother asked, "If I were to be baptized by immersion, how would you feel?" I replied, "That is just what I have been waiting for." She asked, "Where can we go to be baptized by immersion?" I answered, "I inquired about it quite some time ago. We can go to Mawei (which is two hours away from Foochow by small steamer) and find out from Miss Barber. When Dora Yu came to Fukien, she was baptized by immersion at Miss Barber's place." We felt that rather than choose a date, it was better to do it that same day. So my mother and I decided to depart that very same day. Upon arriving at Miss Barber's, we told her of our intention and she fully agreed. Thus, on the same day we went hurriedly to the countryside of Yangchi and were immersed there.
(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 1) Vol. 18: Notes on Scriptural Messages (2), Chapter 8, Section 2)

#### 63
One day I went by boat to Mawei to see Margaret Barber. I asked how she felt about my name being in the Methodist Church's book of life (what they called the church register). She replied, "I am afraid that among the names in that book of life many are dead and not a few are perishing." I said, "Should I have my name in a book of life on earth?" She replied, "If your name is recorded in the book of life in heaven, what good will an earthly book of life do you? And if your name is not recorded in the heavenly book of life, what will this earthly book of life profit you?"
(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 1) Vol. 18: Notes on Scriptural Messages (2), Chapter 8, Section 4)

#### 64
Every Saturday I went to Ma-kiang, Fukien, to listen to Miss Margaret Barber's preaching. This time when I saw her, she said, "Here is twenty-seven dollars, which a friend asked me to give you for your work." This sum was exactly sufficient for three months' rent at nine dollars per month—not too much and not too little. On my return, without hesitation, I paid the three months' rent in advance. Later, we prayed again, and the Lord provided again. This was the beginning of the work in Foochow.
(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 1) Vol. 18: Notes on Scriptural Messages (2), Chapter 8, Section 6)

#### 65
Originally, we considered doing some work at the beginning of the Chinese New Year. But Miss Lee had some other engagements in Nanking and had to leave Foochow. We could only send her away. We also considered asking Miss M.E. Barber from Ma-kiang to come and help us. But she declined on the ground that she did not know what kind of meeting we had. I discussed with Brother Wang about whether or not to continue with our meeting. At that time, Brother Wang had a cold, and I had already sent letters to Brothers Faithful Luke and Simon Meek, who had gone home for vacation, to come back right away. We had no other way but to continue with the meetings.
(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 1) Vol. 18: Notes on Scriptural Messages (2), Chapter 8, Section 5)

#### 66
In 1923 seven of us worked together as co-workers. Two of us took the lead, a co-worker who was five years my senior and myself. We had a co-workers' meeting every Friday in which the other five were often forced to listen to the arguing between the leading two. We were all young then, and each had his own way of thinking. I often charged the elder co-worker with being wrong, and vice versa. Since my temperament had not been dealt with, I frequently lost my temper. Today in 1936 I do sometimes laugh, but I seldom laughed at that time. In our controversies I admit that many times I was wrong, but he was also at times in the wrong. It was easy for me to forgive my own faults, but not easy to forgive others. After having a dispute on Friday, I would go to Sister Barber on Saturday and accuse the other co-worker. I would say, "I told that co-worker that he should act in a certain way, but he would not listen. You should speak to him." Sister Barber replied, "He is five years older than you; you should listen to him and obey him." I answered, "Am I to listen to him whether he is reasonable or not?" She said, "Yes! The Scriptures say that the younger should obey the elder." I replied, "I cannot possibly do this. A Christian should act according to reason." She answered, "Whether there is reason or not, you need not care. The Scriptures say that the younger should obey the elder." I was angry at heart that the Bible would say such a thing. I wanted to give vent to my indignation, but I could not.

Each time following the controversy on Friday, I would go to her to state my grievances, but she would again quote the Scriptures, demanding that I obey the elder. Sometimes I wept Friday evening after the dispute on Friday afternoon. Then I would go to Sister Barber the next day to state my grievances, hoping that she would vindicate me. But I would weep again after coming home Saturday evening. I wished I had been born a few years earlier. In one controversy I had very good arguments. I felt that when I pointed them out, she would see how my co-worker was wrong and would support me. But she said, "Whether that co-worker is wrong or not is another matter. While you are accusing your brother before me, are you like one who is bearing the cross? Are you like a lamb?" When she questioned me in this way, I felt very ashamed and I could never forget it. My speech and my attitude that day revealed that I was indeed not like one bearing the cross, nor like a lamb.
(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 2) Vol. 26: Collection of Newsletters (2) & Watchman Nee's Testimony, Chapter 7, Section 4)

#### 67
Though some had been saved, I was still not satisfied, because many in the school and in the town were still not saved. I felt the need to be filled with the Holy Spirit and to receive power from above that I might be able to bring more people to the Lord. Then I called on Miss Margaret Barber. Being immature in spiritual matters, I asked her if it was necessary to be filled with the Holy Spirit in order to obtain power to bring many to salvation. She answered, "Yes." I asked her concerning the means to be filled with the Holy Spirit. She said, "You must present yourself to God that He may fill you with Himself."

(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 2) Vol. 26: Collection of Newsletters (2) & Watchman Nee's Testimony, Chapter 7, Section 3)

#### 68
Therefore, if a believer wants to be like God, he should let God's nature deal with him in God's way. Today how many believers have deep feelings about sin? I am ashamed to say that my feeling about sin is not deep enough. Miss M.E. Barber deeply understood sin and God's holiness. Usually one only senses pride or jealousy but does not know what pride and jealousy are. But if you went to Miss Barber, you would have a feeling that you otherwise would not have had. She hated sin the most, and she dealt with sin the best. She dealt with herself very strictly. As a result, she was also extremely straightforward with others. The minute one came into her presence, he realized what pride and jealousy are. She truly knew God. This is why I say that many times we cannot learn truths from a man's preaching, but we can learn from the truth he practices.

(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 1) Vol. 10: The Present Testimony (3), Chapter 18, Section 5)

#### 69
Once, Miss M.E. Barber felt that it was God's will that she prepare about ten rooms for hospitality for believers. These would be apartment-like buildings. She prayed for this and, marvelously, God caused a nearby vocational school to close and it was rented to her. There were twenty rooms altogether, and the monthly rent was only twenty dollars. The matter was thus settled. I felt that it was quite remarkable.

Four years later, some bad news came that the vocational school would be reopened. I heard this news through my father because he was one of the board members of the school. One afternoon I went purposely to visit Miss Barber and asked whether or not she was aware of the news. She said that she had indeed received a notice from the school that it was scheduled to reopen in the fall. The school had hired two engineers from the United States to come, and they were on their way. The matter was very certain in their eyes. I asked her, "Are you going to move?" She said, "No." I asked again, "Have you prayed?" She said, "No, I do not even need to pray this time." A young believer who was there said that she must have been deceived by Satan. She answered, "Do not say that so quickly; let us wait and see." Then I asked her again how she could be so sure. She said, "God does not play jokes on us. He said that He wanted me to manage some living quarters. I have done this. He has not told me to stop; will He cast us out? God does not play jokes on us." But how about the other party? The engineers were on their way, and the opening of the school was definite. But she was enjoying her summer vacation peacefully on the mountain, as if this situation would never occur. Remarkably, when she was about to come down from the mountain, the school sent her a letter telling her that the school would not reopen. They asked her to continue renting the rooms because, while they were preparing to reopen the school, an unexpected financial change had forced them to declare bankruptcy. Oh, once we realize clearly the principle of God's working, no matter what happens, we will know definitely how to deal with it. In this way we will avoid many unnecessary actions and words. If we know God, we will certainly know the way He acts. If we know a person's disposition, we can predict how he will act and speak under various circumstances. If we know God, we will know whether He will answer our prayers or not.
(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 1) Vol. 10: The Present Testimony (3), Chapter 14, Section 3)

#### 70
In a letter to Miss Dora Yu, Miss Barber once wrote these few words: "If Satan can take hold of our thought life, he has taken hold of all our life." This is a fact. Do not think these few words were loosely spoken. She had over fifty years of very deep experience with God before she spoke these words. O brothers, do not think that as long as our motives are good, everything is all right. Even though the people we think about and the things we perceive may have changed, if our thoughts and perceptions toward others are the same as before we were saved, we will still make decisions the same way as before. If we cannot overcome our thoughts, we are in the hands of Satan, and we have no way to overcome the enemy.

(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 1) Vol. 10: The Present Testimony (3), Chapter 17, Section 5)

#### 71
Once I felt powerless. Although people told me that I could get by, I still felt powerless. So I went to see an older and more experienced sister (Miss Barber). I asked her, "You have great power. But why do I not have any power?" She knew me very well and often helped me in the Word. Looking at me seriously, she said, "Do you want the power that you can feel or the kind you cannot feel? Which one do you want?" As soon as I heard her, I understood. I said, "I do not want the kind that I can feel." She then said, "Remember, there is no need for the person to feel the power coming from the Spirit. Man's responsibility is just to obey God. The power of the Spirit is never to be felt by the person himself." (Of course, the sense in the spirit is a different matter.) Therefore, our duty is to ask God to bind the power of our soul, our own strength. We must submit to God entirely. Everything else is left for God to do and is none of our business. If we exercise the strength of our soul to serve, we can feel it; this is just like the hypnotists who know they will have a certain result if they do certain things. They know what they should do first, what to do next, and what to do as the third step. The danger of many preachers on the platform is that they do not realize that they are actually exercising their own soulish power. They think they have the power; but, in fact, they are working by the power of their soul. They are only gaining people by their psychic strength.
(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 1) Vol. 10: The Present Testimony (3), Chapter 10, Section 4)

#### 72
During one visit with Miss Barber, I heard a loud noise coming from downstairs. It interrupted our fellowship. Miss Barber asked me to listen to the noise and the desperate cry. She asked if I knew what it was all about. I said that it sounded like someone praying. She laughed and said, "There is no need to spend so much energy to force God to do something. What is the use of outward commotion when the inner being is not touched at all?"
(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 3) Vol. 61: Matured Leadings in the Lord's Recovery (1), Chapter 2, Section 3)

#### 73
After one's heart has been dealt with, he has to learn to control his thoughts. A servant of God must have a high power of concentration. He cannot waste his thoughts carelessly. Miss M. E. Barber once said, "When Satan takes over our thought life, he takes over our whole life." There is a limit to the amount of mental energy we can expend. If we allow our thoughts to wander and roam unchecked, we will find that we cannot focus our mind when we are called to serve in prayer.
(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 3) Vol. 61: Matured Leadings in the Lord's Recovery (1), Chapter 3, Section 2)

#### 74
In my youth in Fukien, sixty-six brothers and sisters were baptized. Later, I corresponded with Mr. D. M. Panton. In my first letter to him, he told me that Miss M. E. Barber had written to him and had told him that it would be a miracle if six out of the sixty-six remained after ten years. At that time I could not take this word. I thought that these sixty-six brothers and sisters were not ordinary people; they were the pride of their generation. Today, when I count, I find that only four, not six, remain of the sixty-six. At that time we were all poor students, but we did our best to save. By saving ten cents, we could print a hundred gospel tracts. By saving a dollar, we could print a thousand tracts. However, in looking back, I can see that many of them were poor involuntarily; they were forced to take this way. Once they took up a job and earned some money, their thought turned to their own replenishment. The more they acquired things of this world, the more they wanted to acquire. The more they took in the world, the more they wanted to take in. It is like an opium addiction; the more one takes, the more he is addicted. In the end he is unable to quit. You have to learn to consecrate yourself voluntarily from the bottom of your heart; no one should force you to do it.
(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 3) Vol. 61: Matured Leadings in the Lord's Recovery (1), Chapter 14, Section 3)

#### 75
If we know life, we will be able to discern that some so-called holiness and power are not life. Brother Nee told me that when he was young, he would often go to hear famous preachers who visited the big cities in China to hold revival meetings. Afterward, he would go to see Miss M. E. Barber, an older sister who gave him much spiritual help, and would tell her how good the speaking was. Miss Barber went with him on several occasions to hear these preachers. Brother Nee often appreciated the power, eloquence, and knowledge of the speakers. However, Miss Barber pointed out to him that these things are not life but natural human ability. Brother Nee was eventually helped to see that things such as eloquence, ability, and charisma are not life. Miss Barber could discern life because she knew life. We need a vision in order to similarly know life.

(Basic Principles Concerning the Eldership, Chapter 11, Section 1)

#### 76
Miss M. E. Barber was a sister from the West who served the Lord in China for many years. She was very spiritual and knew the Lord. For a period of time there was a group of young brothers and sisters who often went to her to be taught. Some of these young saints neglected being proper in their human living because they pursued being spiritual. Sometimes Miss Barber would call one of the sisters into her room, bring out a mirror, and ask, “Please look in the mirror, and see how you combed your hair. Have you combed your hair in the last three days?” Miss Barber would speak frankly, saying, “Sister, it is right that you are pursuing spirituality, but you are not a spirit or an angel. You are still a human being; hence, you need to learn how to be a proper human being. You should care for your appearance, just as you care for spiritual matters.” Miss Barber was right. The more a person grows in the Lord, the more human he will become; he will bear a strong aroma of a proper humanity.

(Knowing and Experiencing God as Life, Chapter 4, Section 3)

#### 77
Since we know that the Lord's second coming is so precious, we should love the Lord's appearing (2 Tim. 4:8). The Bible concludes with “Come, Lord Jesus!” (Rev. 22:20). From the record in the New Testament, it is not difficult to discover that in their hearts the apostles firmly believed that the Lord would come quickly, and they also lived a life in preparation for the Lord's second coming. In the church's history, I know that Miss M. E. Barber was one who lived such a life. On the last day of 1925, Brother Nee went to pray with her, and she prayed, “Lord, do You really mean to say that You will let 1925 pass by, that You will wait until 1926 before You come back? However, on this last day I still pray that You will come back today!” Not long afterward, Brother Nee met her on the street, and again she said to him, “It is really strange that up to this day He has not yet come back.” Do not think that since we are clear concerning the signs of the Lord's coming, we can be slothful and can first love the world and then pursue the Lord when the last week comes. There is no such convenience. We should believe that the Lord is to be feared.

(The Up-to-date Presentation of the God-ordained Way and the Signs Concerning the Coming of Christ, Chapter 7, Section 4)

#### 78
In my whole life I have never been impressed by another person like I was by Miss M. E. Barber. She was indeed a person who waited for the Lord's return. There are many famous men in Christianity who studied prophecy, such as D. M. Panton. They all knew about the Lord's return. But to my knowledge, only Miss Barber was a person who truly waited for His return. It was a big surprise to her that the Lord had not returned in her time. One year I spent the last day, New Year's eve, with her. She prayed, "Lord, if You want to come now, there is still time this year; You do not have to wait until next year." Her face was towards the Lord's coming. Christians do not wait for a time when we will serve the church; we wait for a time when the Lord will come again. If a believer is not careful, but substitutes other things for the Lord's return, he becomes fallen immediately. Once Miss Barber wrote a hymn concerning the Lord's coming. I did not understand one line she wrote in her hymn. She answered, "Come with me and I will show you." We went out and took a walk. When we were about to turn a corner, she said to me, "The Lord is coming; He is getting closer and closer. Perhaps we will see Him around the corner." In her I saw a person who was waiting for the Lord's return, and I realized what it means to wait for the Lord to return. Her whole life was a life of preparing for the Lord's return. Day by day, while she lived on the earth, she waited eagerly for the Lord to return.

(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 3) Vol. 60: Miscellaneous Records of the Kuling Training (2), Chapter 28, Section 1)

#### 79
When I was at White Teeth Lake, I once argued with Miss Barber. She said she wanted to gather a group of overcomers together. I said, "This is wrong. If you do, you are making yourself a sect." We believe in the truth concerning the overcomers, but we cannot choose a group of overcomers to form an overcomers' group. I knew about a certain situation concerning a brother. A few years later, others knew about it as well. When they found this out, they asked why I tolerated him for such a long time. I thought in my heart, "A sect can choose whom it likes, but we cannot exercise such a choice among God's children; we cannot choose whom we like in the church." Of course, when a man chooses to leave of his own accord, that is a different story.

(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 3) Vol. 60: Miscellaneous Records of the Kuling Training (2), Chapter 22, Section 1)

#### 80
I became a Christian at the end of 1919. At the beginning of 1920 I met a sister, Miss M. E. Barber, from whom I received much help. This help did not come merely from her words. Through meeting with her, staying or walking with her, my spirit was nourished. With some people one receives the supply only when they speak. With Miss Barber this was not the case. She only needed to sit in front of you, and you would receive nourishment and the anointing. This is the genuine spiritual supply. It is not a matter of doing something or saying something. Whoever learns more lessons has more spiritual deposit and can render more supply to others.
(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 3) Vol. 62: Matured Leadings in the Lord's Recovery (2), Chapter 21, Section 3)

#### 81
In my whole life I have only met two people who prayed with a strong and clean spirit—Brother Sparks and Miss Barber.
(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 3) Vol. 62: Matured Leadings in the Lord's Recovery (2), Chapter 14, Section 5)

#### 82
The second stanza of Hymns, #73 written by M. E. Barber says, “Just to breathe the Name of Jesus, / Is to drink of Life indeed.” To call on the name of the Lord Jesus is to drink of the Spirit.
(Messages to the Trainees in Fall 1990, Chapter 4, Section 2)

M. E. Barber said in a hymn that “to breathe the Name of Jesus is to drink of Life indeed” (Hymns, #73).
(Messages to the Trainees in Fall 1990, Chapter 5, Section 4)

#### 83
Once I was talking to Sister M. E. Barber in the living room, and two sisters were praying in the back room. One of them was quite forceful. Miss Barber asked, "Should you pray like she does?" Before I could answer her, she said, "You should never pray like she does. You can never force God to answer your prayer."
(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 3) Vol. 58: Spiritual Judgment and Examples of Judgment, Chapter 47, Section 1)

#### 84
I had problem with my lungs, kidneys, and pancreas. Even now I have a problem with my heart. In 1923 I had peritonitis for the first time. I was in bed for over a month. When I breathed I felt pain. I had a high fever, and the pain was excruciating. At that time Brother Simon Meek gathered some brothers and sisters to pray for me. When he prayed, I did not feel anything. Another sister (M. E. Barber) prayed, "Lord, no one praises You in the grave; if our brother dies, You will not have his praise." As she prayed, something broke through in me, even though the fever was still present, and I was still in pain. The next day I rose up and went to Lo-hsing Pagoda to work on the first issue of The Christian. If we do not have God's word, we should take care of our body. If we have God's word, we should never look at the symptoms. We should consider the symptoms temptations and lies. They cannot remain; they have to go.

(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 3) Vol. 58: Spiritual Judgment and Examples of Judgment, Chapter 20, Section 2)

#### 85
Sister M. E. Barber once said that whoever places himself in the Lord's hand will be broken.
(Collected Works of Watchman Nee, The (Set 3) Vol. 58: Spiritual Judgment and Examples of Judgment, Chapter 54, Section 1)

#### 86
What is needed for the building up of a local church is the ministry of life, not the gifts. In order to illustrate this point, I would like to tell a story about Brother Watchman Nee and an elder sister by the name of Miss Barber, who helped him very much. As a young man, Brother Nee always admired good speakers. When he and Miss Barber went to hear a few speakers, Brother Nee told her how wonderful they were. But Miss Barber would say, “That is just doctrine with human eloquence. There is no life there.” In other words, there was no ministry with these ones.

(The Experience of Christ as Life for the Building Up of the Church, Chapter 15, Section 4)

