the law of life is of the nature of life. the law comes out of the nature. the law
regulates according to the nature. for example an apple tree has the nature to bring
forth apples. the law of life operates to make the apple tree bring forth apples according to
it's nature.

> which do you prefer to have--the nature of God or the presence of God which represents his person? every Christian regards the presence of God as dear and precious. in Christianity there is much talk about the presence of God. we are told that the presence of God should mean everything to us and that we must do all things in his presence. in Christianity the believers are taught to live and walk in God's presence, and a number of books have been written about living in the presence of god. but where can you find a book telling you to live according to the nature of God? if we have the revelation, we shall prefer the nature of God to the presence of God. I may live in a certain brothers presence, loving him and walking with him. nevertheless he remains a Caucasian and I remain a chinese who lives in the presence of a Caucasian. what does this mean? nothing. simply to walk and live in the presence of God without having his nature in you means very little. for thousands of years, the angels have been walking in the presence of God, but they have never satisfied him. only one thing can touch God's heart--to have a people who live and walk according to his nature. for a flea to walk in your presence means nothing, but for a flea to live according to your human nature means a great deal. thus, walking in the presence of god means little, but living in and by his nature has great significance. however, most Christians only know the presence of god, they do not know his nature.
> 
