the budding rod is absolutely related to the building up of gods people, because
it was related to the lord establishing the proper authority among the children of
Israel so that they could be built together as gods people. not many understand the
experience of the budding rod because they do not know about the need for building up among gods people.

we should not have competition, promotion, position or ambition. real authority comes with the budding rod. if we do not have the budding rod, regardless of our so called position, when others contact us they will be deadened. but if we have the budding rod, even if others touch us with death, that will be turned to life. they will bud, blossom, and bear almonds. when others accuse us of not being "the church" we do not need to answer. whether or not we are the church depends on whether or not we are budding, blossoming and bearing almonds.

> having authority is not a matter of what we can do; it is a matter of how much we bud. you may do a great deal, but there is no blossoming. instead of budding, you die; instead of blossoming you kill others; and instead of bearing fruit, you deaden everyone who contacts you. this proves that you do not have the authority. however, if you have the budding rod, and a dead one contacts you, he will be revived and become living. this proves that you have authority. the authority is not in our capability or skill. the real vindication is in our budding, not in our doing. doing means nothing, but budding means everything. in our church life and in the church service, we all must bud, blossom, and yield almonds. this is our need today.
