> we need a praying life. the real praying life is always a life of interceding. genuine prayer is not mainly to prayer for ourselves; it is continually to pray for others. praying for ourselves is not intercession. but to pray for others is to interceed for them. thus prayer for others is intercession. 

the incense altar had a crown of gold, signifying the glory of christs divinity as the power to preserve those whom we interceed for.

the rings are gold and the bars are acacia wood overlaid with gold. both refer to the Spirit. today this Spirit includes the humanity of Jesus and by such a Spirit the intercession of Christ is brought to every corner of the earth.

> When the churches and the saints pray with Christ, the Life-giving Spirit will carry out whatever we pray, bringing Christ's intercession to every place on earth related to God's interests
>
> May we all be stirred up to seek such an interceding life so that we may enjoy Christ not only as the table, the lampstand, and the ark, but also as the incense altar. This incense altar is the turning point of our Christian life. It motivates every aspect of the Christian life to positive action. The prayer of intercession also motivates others to come to Christ at the altar of burnt offering, at the laver, at the table, at the lampstand, and at the ark in the Holy of Holies. It will motivate a great many saints to seek the riches of Christ until they come to maturity. Therefore, it is extremely important that we interced with Christ at the incense altar.
