the altar was heavy (approx 2400kg) and would have required at least four people, perhaps even sixteen, to
carry it. this points to the need for a corporate body, the church, for the move
of the cross. this must also be a church with the four rings connected to the
grating, i.e. a church connected to and remaining in the spirit.

in the picture of the grating, the rings and the poles we have Christ, the Spirit and the Church. this is a summary of the NT. Christ accomplished redemption through the eternal Spirit, and this Christ with the cross is borne by the Church as a corporate body.

in revelation the 7 spirits go throughout the earth, but they go as part of tge church, not on their own.

> if we do not go to a certain place, the Spirit will have no way to go there either, for the Spirit goes in us, with us and through us, the members of the Body. if the poles do not go to a certain part of the earth, how can the rings go to that place? the rings go wherever the poles go. when the poles move, the rings move also. likewise, when the poles stop, the rings also stop. this means that if there were no Christians on the earth today, there would be no move of the Holy Spirit. the Spirit moves with the believers. in other words, the Spirit moves with the church. the church bears the power of the Spirit.

> those who carried the altar first carried the poles. when they bore the poles, thet also bore the rings, and when they bore the rings, they bore the grating with the whole altar. 
