the silver accomplished two things: it contributed
to the building of the tabernacle, and it formed
an army to fight for God's interest on earth.

although silver is related to redemption there is
no blood, so it does not signify the crucified
Christ. rather this silver was a heave offering,
which signifies the ascended Christ. this is the
highest experience of Christ.

we all need to reach the spiritual age of twenty
so we can be drafted to fight in the army.

**half** a shekel indicates the tax is not too much.

> God's command that, concerning the propitiation silver, the rich may not pay more than a half shekel and the poor not pay less is altogether against the common practice among today's Christians. This practice is that the more someone puts in, the better. Those who are rich, the spiritual giants, pay more than God requires, and the poor do not pay anything. The result is that in the so-called services there is the system of clergy-laity. A few do all the speaking, and the majority of the people do not say anything.
>
> I would like to say a word of warning to the leading ones among us and to those who are good speakers: Do not think that bevause you are rich you should pay more than a half-shekel in the meetings. I would also so a word to those who are not good speakers, yet who, spiritually speaking, are above the age of twenty: You need to pay a half-shekel, nothing less.

> Leading ones, be careful of the amount of the poll tax you pay in the meetings is not more than a half-shekel. Even though you have been enriched by God--thank Him for this--you need to be limited and not pay so much tax in the meetings. Leave opportunity for others to speak. Those who regard themselves as poor and weak at least have a half-shekel.
