the robe worn by the high priest

Is 6:1
> In the year that King Uzziah died I saw the Lord sitting on a high and lofty throne, and the train of His robe filled the temple.

the train signifies the lords virtues. the more
someone covers themselvea the more virtue
he has. the lords virtue is so great it fills
the temple he is sitting in.

Ps 133:2
> It is like the fine oil upon the head / That ran down upon the beard, / Upon Aaron’s beard, / That ran down upon the hem of his garments;

Rv 1:13
> And in the midst of the lampstands One like the Son of Man, clothed with a garment reaching to the feet, and girded about at the breasts with a golden girdle.


> As He walked on earth, He walked in a way that was full of virtue. Hos expression certainly had a long train. For example, when He was in that little cottage in Bethany, His train filled the room. Likewise, when He walked on the streets of Jerusalem, His virtues filled the city. That was the expression of God. Therefore, in the Bible a long garment with a long skirt signifies the fulness of the virtues of the one clothed with that garment.

the robe was all blue signifying his heavenliness.

if we consider the whole garments of the high priest, they typify Christ as the expression of God, but the breastplate, shoulder pieces, and long robe, signify the church as the fulness of the expression of Christ. this church is the most precious and beautiful part of the garments.

the robe has an opening that is like chain mail, indicating that as we are living the testimony of Jesus on the earth, we will suffer attack from the enemy.

at the ends of the robes were pomegranatea of linen and golden bells, one after another in a row. thia shows that in the church we meed the fulness of life, which is related to our humanity, and the warning of the testimonies of the saints, which is related to divinity. when the church is normal there is not the gossip, for there is fulness of life in humanity, but there is a divine warning sounding out to keep us from making mistakes.
