in hebrews paul refers to the holy place and the holy of holies as two tabernacles. the first
tabernacle is a type of the "present age", meaning the new testament age, is a type
of the old covenqnt, and a type of our soul. the secon tabernacle is the reality of
the present age (the glory of god in the holy of holies was not a type but actually
god himself dwelling in the tabernacle), a type of the new covenant, and a type of
our spirit.

experientially, we can enjoy nourishment and light in the holy place but are still in
the old covenant unless we enjoy god in the holy of holies. we need the dividing of
spirit and soul, the rending of the flesh, that we can live in the holy of holies.

the pillars are standing boards who have been dealt with and are thus strengthend and
able to support the entrance to the holy of holies. if, in a local church, the leading
ones have not had their flesh rent, the church wilp be kept in the holy place and cannot
be in the holy of holies.

> If the flesh or the leading ones, the stronger ones, in the church has not been broken, the entire church will be kept in the first tabernacle and frustrated from entering the second tabernacle. whether or not an assembly can enter the Holy of Holies depends on whether or not the flesh of the leading ones has been cleft. ... If our flesh is crucified, it will become a riven veil as an entrance for the entire church to come into the second tabernacle and have the direct enjoyment of God. By this we see that the situation of the church depends on the breaking of the flesh of the leading ones. this exactly corresponds to what i have observed throughout the years. whether or not the church in a particular locality can enter into the Holy of Holies depends entirely on the brokenness of the flesh of the pillars, on the brokenness of the flesh of the leading ones. 
