except for moses, with whom God spoke
face to face as with a friend, God
spoke to Joshua and those after Him
through the urim and thummim via the
high priest.

the high priest through whom God would
speak had certain qualifications. according
to deut. 33:8-9 this one had to be godly
by not allowing the members of their
family to become a separation between
them and God. this is similar to the
lord's word in matt 10:37 about not loving
the relatives above him.

Dt 33:9
> He who said of his father and mother, / I do not regard him; / And his brothers he did not acknowledge, / And his children he did not recognize; / For they have kept Your speaking / And have guarded Your covenant.

Mt 10:37
> He who loves father or mother above Me is not worthy of Me; and he who loves son or daughter above Me is not worthy of Me;

another qualification was to be one who offered burnt offerings and incense on the altars

Dt 33:10
> They shall show Jacob Your ordinances, / And Israel Your law; / They shall put incense before Your nostrils / And whole burnt offerings upon Your altar.

> First Samuel 28:6 gives three ways for God to reveal matters: dreams, the Urim, and prophets. Which of these ways do you prefer? I do not prefer the way of dreams. I would rather have God speak something to me directly instead of through a dream. (I know from experience, however, that some dreams are of God and that He does reveal certain matters through dreams.) Do you prefer to have God speak to your through a prophet? The reason the prophets were raised up is that the priests and the kings failed God. Because God had no way to go on with the priests and the kings, the prophets were raised up by Him. This is the reason in the Old Testament we have first the priests then the kings, and then the prophets. Nevertheless, some Christians like to hear someone speak in the way of the Old Testament prophets and declare, "Thus saith the Lord." If you enjoy this kind of speaking and prefer God's speaking through the prophets, this may be an indication that you are not close to the Lord. If you are a person who is intimate with the Lord, you will be a priest with the Urim and the Thummim. We should prefer God's speaking not through dreams or through prophets, but through the Urim and the Thummim. We are not dreamers or prophets; we are priests with the Urim and the Thummim.

The Urim and Thummim are a type of Christ. The Urim typifies Christ as light, and He is the light of the world.

The book `The Ancient Scriptures and the Modern Jew` says the oil that burned in the Urim came from the altar. This signifies that Christ as the illuminator shines through the oil (the Spirit) and the fire (the cross). As the light shines the Spirit burns and the cross is working.
