six verses in the sabbath are inserted after the revelation of the tabernacle and before
the builders began, showing that to work with God we first need to rest with God. the
sabbath was gods seventh day, but man's first day.

exo 31:37b
> ...for in six days Jehovah made heaven and earth, and on the seventh day He rested **and was refreshed**.

God not only rested but was refreshed. he was refreshed by the creation He had made,
especially the man He had made. man was like a refreshing drink to satisfy God as
He rested on the sabbath day 

the sabbath is a sign that we work one with God by enjoying God and relying on Him. it wouod be wonderful if in all our speaking we pray and exercise to be one with the Lord and not speak anything apart from Him.

the sabbath is also a covenant, a contract between us and the Lord, that we would not work for Him without first enjoying Him and being filled with Him in order to be one with Him. it is not just a matter of trusting the Lord but of eating, drinking and be filled with Him, speaking what we have been eating. this is a contract that both we and the Lord make with each other - that we are eating Him and that He is supplying us 

the tabernacle, furniture and offerings are all for us to enter the sabbath rest. the offerings are to free us from condemnation into rest, the showbread table and lampstand feed us and shine on us to give us rest. if we do not have these and do not enter within the veil to enjoy the ark we will not have rest.
