according to john 1 god is the word, the word
is incarnated to be the tabernacle and this one
is Jesus. the lord is the real tabernacle. this means
he is enterable. however without the offerings
we could not enter the tabernacle. as such Christ
is also the offerings. he is the lamb of god and
he is our way. not only this, as the offerings
he is our food. thus through christ we have the
way to enter into christ and have christ enter us.
it is as such that we can experience the incense
altar. it is when we are in christ as the tabernacle
through the offerings, and when he is in us as our
food and as the one praying in us, that we can
serve at the incense altar 

the incense offered on the incense altar is also Christ. in revelation incense is added to the prayers of the saints and ascends to God. it is the incense, Christ added to our prayers, that causes our prayers to rise. if we see this we will be ashamed of prayers we made in the past that did not have christ added.

> This Angel is Christ, the One who adds His incense to the prayers of the saints. It is this incense, not the prayers of the saints, that causes the smoke to rise. In our prayers we need to have Christ as the incense with the smoke that rises. The point here is that to burn the incense actually means to pray Christ.
>
> If we see that to burn the incense is to pray Christ, we shall feel ashamed of the way we have often prayed in the past. We have prayed many things that are not Christ. Instead of burning Christ as the incense, we have burned strange incense. We have offered strange incense, something other than Christ Himself. However, we should not offer as incense anything except Christ. In the past there was much strange incense in our prayers; there were many things that were not Christ.
