the word 'ephod' is direct from hebrew
because there is no english equivalent.
before moses received the revelation concerning
the priestly garments, this concept did not
exist in human society.

according to the dictionary ephod means
to bind, fasten, gird, link. the purpose
of the ephod was to connect the breastplate
and shoulder plates, and to fasten them
to the high priests clothing.

only the high priest could wear the ephod,
so only Christ has the binding power. he holds
us and bears us on his shoulders and breasts,
but it is not like being carried, it is like
being fastened onto christ.

sometimes we know we should have faith but it seems the more we pray for faith the less we have. we dont doubt the basic faith in the lord but we do doubt his working to hold us in our environment. how do we deal with this? we need to see that the lords glory and humanity are the holding power. when we read the gospels and appreciate the beauty and glory displayed in them, spontaneously we are connected to him and filled with faith. br lee had this experience when he had tubeeculosis and he had no faith that the lord would heal him.

the ephod was made of strands of gold and blue, purple and scarlet. this shows the fastening, girding power is Christs heavenly, royal life, amd his redemption.

> We need to ask ourselves how in our experience we are held by the Lord. Some may say that they are held by faith. They may pray, "Lord Jesus, I don't have any faith. Please give me the faith so that I can believe that I am in Your hand and that You are holding me." I have often prayed this way. I have had many experiences of this kind of prayer and of this kind of believing. But the more I prayed like this, the less I seemed to trust the Lord. The more I asked for faith, the less faith I had. Many other Christians have had a similar experience. Perhaps you have prayed, "Lord, You are my Keeper. You have the keeping grace. You have the power to hold me, and You love me. Lord, embrace me and preserve me. But You know, Lord, when trouble comes, I seem to forget evertyhing. Therefore, Lord, I ask You to infuse me with Your faith. O Lord, infuse Yourself into me as my living faith." But the more you pray like this, the less it seems that faith is infused into You.
>
> Forty years ago I became seriously ill of tuberculosis. During that time I did not have any faith that the Lord would heal me. Of course, I did not lose my basic faith, the saving faith, in the Lord. But I did lose any faith that the Lord would heal me of tuberculosis. The elders, the co-workers, and the church with all the saints prayed for me. I have given a number of messages to the saints telling them that the Lord if faithful and charging them to believe in Him. I encouraged them to trust in Him, for He would never fail them. Then I became ill and found it difficult to trust in the Lord. A certain sister who brought my food to me three times a day talked with me about faith. She asked me why I did not have the faith that the Lord would heal me. I said to her, "Sister, you are right. I don't have a bit of faith. Can you please help me and tell me what faith is?" It seemed rather strange that I would ask her such a question. She had been saved through my preaching, and now I was asking her to tell me what faith is. She was very surprised and was not able to answer me. Actually, the situation of every preacher is like this.
>
> My point here is that when we realize the divine glory and the human beauty of Christ, we are spontaneously fastened to Him. There is not need for us to try to believe in Him. The fastening power does not come from our faith: it comes from what He is and what He has. The Lord has the divine glory and the human beauty. He is glorious, and He is beautiful. Whenever we consider Him or gaze on Him, we are fastened to Him in a practical way in our experience. There is not need for us to attempt to believe in Him or trust in Him, for we are already girded to Him.
>
> I enjoy reading and studying the four Gospels. As we read the Gospels, sometimes we can see the glory of the Lord, and sometimes we can see His beauty. Even while the Lord was in the flesh on earth as a man, His glory could be seen. Even in His incarnation He was glorious. When we read the Gospels, we can see that the divine glory was with Him. We can also see the Lord's human beauty, a beauty that is fine and very precious. We do not have the words adequate to describe the human beauty of the Lord Jesus revealed in the four Gospels. But as we read the Gospels, something within our being realizes how beautiful the Lord is. For example, the way He dealt with His disciples and talked with Mary and Martha in John 11 was beautiful. When we consider the divine glory and human beauty of the Lord in the Gospels, we are spontaneously fastened to Him. Then we are held to Him and even carried on His shoulders. His divine glory and His human beauty tie us to Himself.
