ingredients.

myrrh. in the bible used in relation to death.
when the lord was buried one of the spices
brought was myrrh. myrrh was also used to reduce
pain suffered while dying. it offered when
he was on the cross. myrrh was also used to
heal the body from giving off the wrong secretions.

> To receive the anointing is to receive the divine painting.  ... In our experience of the Spirit we need to be "painted" again and again. Eventually we may receive hundreds of layers.

> **As** the anointing is being applied to us, it teaches us. Today God mainly teaches us silently by the anointing. For example, you may ask the Lord about something, and He will teach you concerning it by anointing you. If you would say, "Lord, please tell me what color you want," the Lord may not say anything. Instead, He may pick up His "brush" and paint you a particular color, perhaps green. Instead of speaking to you about the color green, He tells you that He wants green by painting you green. This is the Lord's way to teach us.

500 shekels signifies full responsibility. that there are three units of 500, and the middle is split, is a picture of the Divine Trinity.

the purpose of the anointing was to mark someone as holy. this is like wet paint. whoever contacts us who are painted will be affected.

for all generations means it will not change

not to be poured on the flesh of man means we need to be in spirit.

not make any like it means we should not imitate the spirit through morality or other things.
