#### the location of the altar
the incense altar is the last item of furniture
of the tabernacle to be revealed. it is not spoken
of until after all the furniture, the tabernacle
itself, the outer court, the priestly garments and
the priestly food have been unveiled. after all
these things the priests were ready to begin their
service. but their service began not with the bronze
altar in the outer court, but with the golden incense
altar.

#### the gospel of john a picture of the tabernacle culminating in ch 17 at the incense altar
the tabernacle with all its furnishings is a picture of the entire bible, and the book that is most representative of this is the gospel of john:
- ch1 speaks of creation, "all things came into being through him"
- 1:14 shows christ himself is the tabernacle
- 1:29 shows He is the lamb of God, pointing to the bronze altar
- ch3 talks of the washing of regeneration, the laver
- ch6 talks of the showbread table, "the bread of god is he.."
- 8:12, "i am the light of the world" - the lampstand
- ch 14, 15, 16 show the holy of holies
- ch 17 reveals the prayer at the incense altar.

#### the carrying out of gods administration
the incense altar is where gods asministration is carried out. it is the heavenly "white house." the reason we repneted, were regenerated, came to feed upon the lord, were enlightened in the word, or came to care for Gods testimony in the holy of holies, is because of this prayer at the incense altar. we need this prayer. there may be much opposition, but this opposition is just a proof that we are at the incense altar caring for gods administration on the earth.


> the book of revelation is a book of gods administration, a book of divine execution. this book reveals the throne of god and the administration of god throughout the universe. however the executing center actually is not the thone; the executing center is the incense altar in revelation 8.

> the prayer life of christ is the center of the execution of gods government on the earth. revelation 8 indicates this. but some who read chapter 8 of revelationay say, "in revelation 8 we cannot see christs prayer. we can see only the prayers of the saints. the saints, however, are one with christ. the prayers on revelation 8 no longer are merely the prayers of the individual christ, but have become the prayers of the corporate christ. in the matter of the execution that takes place at the incense altar, the saints truly are one with christ.

> as the incense ascends through the burning at the golden altar of incense, the execution of gods administration os taking place. this execution is gods answer to the prayers offered at the incense altar.

> if it were not for the incense altar, no one would come to the altar of burnt offering. no one would repent and come to the altar to confess his sins. it is the prayer at the incense altar that motivates sinners to come to the altar of burnt offering. because of this prayer one day we repented. do you know the reason you repented? you repented because the incense altar, the heavenly white house, sent forth a message urging you to repent. thus, without the incense altar, the altar of burnt offering cannot function, and no one can repent.

> thus, there is the need of more prayer at the incense altar. either christ himself as the head, or the church as the body needs to pray, "O Father, look at these people. they have repented, but they have not yet been regenerated. father, forgive their sins and regenerate them." as a result of further prayers from the incense altar, other will be motivated to come to the laver. they will want to plunge into the laver and be immersed in the spirit.

> the opposers are busy, but the Intercessor and also the intercessors are more busy. eventually, the prayer from our White House will prevail. it is a serious matter for anyone to deal lightly with the heavenly White House, the center of God's administration.
