the spirit of something is the extract of that
thing. thus the Spirit of God in creation (Gen 1)
is the extract of God, which is God Himself, His
divinity. because creation was through the Spirit
of God, it manifests the eternal power of God.

the first time the term Holy Spirit is used is with the conception of the Lord Jesus. the Holy Spirit is the extract of God's holiness, thus the Lord was called a "holy thing" at His birth. it is also by such a Holy Spirit that we can be sanctified with God's holy nature.

in resurrection the Lord was glorified and all He did in His incarnation, human living, crucifixion and resurrection became compounded in the Spirit. now He is have "the Spirit", the Spirit of Jesus Christ, the "another Comforter", the "Spirit of reality", Who is the extract of all the Lord is and did.

the spirit of life (rom 8:2) has the extract of the divine life, and the life-giving Spirit (1 cor 15:45) is the spirit who gives life (2 cor 3:6). the life-giving is not only the spirit with the extract of life, but the spirit that can impart this life to others.

the Lord Spirit (2 cor 3:18) is the spirit of the ascended Christ who has been made Lord of all. thus this spirit contains the extract of his ascension and lordship.

the seven Spirits in revelation is the spirit who has been intensified, and who has the element of intensification.

the title of the Spirit most used in the NT is "The Spirit", which the the consummation of the Spirit, including all the other extracts. in John 7:39 this Spirit was "not yet" because the process had not been completed. "The Spirit" is also the blessing promised to Abraham

The Spirit is the compound Spirit, amd His function is to anoint the dwelling place of God and the priesthood.
