exo 28:36-43 is the final word on the
preistly garments, and includes the turban,
the girdle, the tunic, the breeches, and
the golden plate. the golden plate was
all gold and was inscribed with the words
"holiness to jehovah". the other items
were of fine linen, which according to rev. 19:8
is the righteousnesses of the saints. so
the two most impressive points about the
priestly garments is holiness and righteousness.
holiness is of the divine nature, amd thus golden.
righteousness is the sum total of human
virtue and thus linen.

#### fourfold holiness

the high priest bore the iniquity of the people. the meaning of this is that there was a topmost portion set apart only for God and the priests to enjoy. the high priests reaponsibility was to ensure this portion was not touched by anyone else.

to get this top portion there are four stages of holiness: thw hold land upon which the children of israel worked, the holy produce which came out of the land, the top 10% which was presented to God and for the most part was used in their feasts to feast with and enjoy Jehovah, and the top portion which was reserved for only God, and some parts for the priest. it is the lords responsibility, as the one wearing "holiness to jehovah" to bring us all one from the first stage of holiness to the fourth.

#### covering
the garments were for covering the sinful (naked) flesh. the breeches especially covered the the loins and the thighs (the most sinful part), which were already covered by the tunic, as a double covering. this is Christ as our righteousneas covering up our sinful flesh so we can serve as priests.

if a priest did not dress properly when he served as a priest he would die. if also do not cloth ourselves in Christ as our righteousness when we serve as a priest we will suffer spiritual death.
