- myrrh - all-inclusive death
- cinammon - effectiveness of death
- calamis - rising up out of a muddy situation and shooting into the air; resurrection
- cassia - repelling snakes and insects; power of resurrection

the reaon moat christians cannot interpret the anointing oil is that they have not experienced it. the reason they have not experienced it is because the anointing is for the house. it is only after the building of the tabernacle and the preparation of the body of priests is ready that the anointing oil is revealed 

the preparation of the ingredients all involved symbols of suffering. the olives had to be pressed to make oil; the myrhh tree had to be cut for the resin to flow out. the cinammon and cassia come from the inner and outer part of the bark of the tree, which involves the stripping of the bark. this shows that the compounding of the ointment came from the sufferings the Lord suffered in His human life.

when myrrh resin flows out of a tree it has the appearance of tears. the blood and tears issuing from our body are signs of suffering.

in english a spirit is also an extract of something that comes through pressing. tea can be considered the same. the extract of the suffering of christs death is an element in the spirit.

some bible teachers recognised that we need to experience the lords death, resurrection and ascension, but only knew that the way to experience is by believing the facts. however this does not work. we can only experience these things by the Spirit.

> the more i tried to believe the facts the more dead i became. i did not experience any of the divine stimulation. however, i can testify that when i prayed amd contacted the spirit, i did experience the lord's stimulation.

> the majority of christians live a life of imitation. unbelievers can also be kind, humble, patient and helpful. this certainly has nothing to do with the Spirit. if we Christians live like this, we are making an imitation of the ointment, something that is strictly forbidden in exodus 30. nevertheless, in many religious gatherings, christians and taught amd encouraged to live a life of imitation. they are urged to be kind, loving, and honest, all without Christ and without the Spirit. this is an abomination in the sight of God. it is possible that weay practice the same thing. if we do not see the matter of the compound Spirit, in our daily living we may be the same as those who imitate the Spirit.
