the appearance of the front of the outer court is two walls of hangings on either side,
each made up of three sections, and four curtains in the middle for the entrance.
the four curtains in the middle signify man (4) and the two lots of three curtains on the
side is the testimony (2) of the Triune God (3). thus the entrance to the tabernacle shows us man
bearing and testifying of God.

the gospel we preach should be up to the standard of the entrance to the outer court.
we need to teach them that the purpose of being saved is to enter God's building, and
to become a testimony of the Triune God among men.

our understand of the things of Gos are often like an english speaker trying to learn the greek alphabet and confusing many of the letters of english letters. we confuse the things of our culture and our natural man with the things of God in the same way. but we need to properly learn the spiritual alphabet.

John 16:8
> And when He comes, He will convict the world concerning sin and concerning righteousness and concerning judgment

the gate to the outer court is made of bronze. whoever comes in through this gate must be judged. everything we are, have, do and can do must be judged before we can enter.

God 's righteousness can be connected to us? through the silver hooks. the judgment issues in redemption, and the redemption connects us to the righteousness.

> whatever God judges, Christ redeems. 

> the true meaning of repentance is that we are judged. to repent is to judge ourselves and condemn ourselves. whennever a person repents, he condmens himself and places himself under God's judgment. this is the experience of the bronze.
>
> but since Christ redeems whatever God judges, this redemption will link the judged one to God's righteousness. furthermore this redemption also joins us to one another.

the pegs are the holding power and are also of bronze. the reason people come into the church life and later leave is they are not under God's judgment. the more we are under God's judgment the more stable we will become. 

> from the day a saint comes into the church life, he should place himself under God's judgment. then he will be strong and stable in the church life. judgment truly stablises the church life.

those who criticise others are also without judgment. the more we are under God's judgment the more our critical judging mouth will be shut.

bronze results in silver and silver brings us into the tabernacle which is a realm of gold. thus we need to experience the bronze, then the silver and finally the gold. we should remain in the tabernacle enjoying the gold and even entering the holy of holies in the deepest part of the tabernacle.
