those who offered sacrifices at the bronze altar
in the outer court surely would have prayed,
but such prayer is _to_ God, not _in_ God, and
it is related to the crucified Christ as either
our sin offering or tresspass offering. however
the prayers offered at the incense altar were prayers
offered _in_ God (since the word is God and the word
tabernacled among us). it is also related to the
resurrected and ascended Christ.

the two altars were connected by the blood and the fire. the blood of the sin offering was sprinkled on the incense altar, showing that our prayer at the incense altar is based on the forgiveness of sins and our substitute. the fire that burned on the incense altar was also taken from the first altar.

the fire signifies that we need to be burned to ashes. by laying our hands on the burnt offering we are burned to ashes together with Him. this is to experience the death of Christ. "It is no longer I who live."

in order to enjoy Christ as the bread our natural conduct must become ashes. to have christ as the lampstand our natural sight must be terminated. and to experience the incense altar out natural virtue must be terminated.

at the first altar it is too easy to pray prayers involving our self and our situation. but prayers at the second altar require us to first be reduced to ashes. thus these prayers cannot contain something of the self. instead of the natural sight, conduct, virtue, we have Christ as the light, bread and incense.

the natural man is the composition of our natural sight, conduct and virtue. this matural man is signified by the veil and is in opposition to the ark as the testimony of God.
