outer court

three types of material in the tabernacle: mineral (gold, silver, bronze), plant (acacia wood,
linen), animal (ram, porpoise). from gods side the mention is first gold, then silver and bronze.
similarily the acacia wood is hidden but the linen is shown. but from our side the order
is the opposite.

the two primary attributes of God seen in the tabernacle is holiness and righteousness.
from Gods perspective, holiness is first then righteousness. this is seen in the ten commandments.
the first four are related to God and pertain to His holiness. the last six are related to
man and pertain to His righteousness, His deeds. on our side, however, the order is reversed.
Eph 4:24 says the new man was created according to righteousness and holiness of the reality. this is
from our side.

> a person approaching the tabernacle from afar would first see the fine linen. since linen signifies righteousness, this means that a person approaching the tabernacle from a distqnce would see righteousness. the appearance of the tabernacle and the outer court to those outside is fine linen, righteousness. likewise the appearance of the church today as God's kingdom is righteousness, the appearance of the bride prepared for Christ will be righteousness, and in the new heaven and new earth for eternity there will be the expression of righteousness. linen is produced from the plant life. hence, it is an issue of life. this signifies that righteousness is an issue of life.

the tabernqcle was surrounded by curtains of fine linen, id icating that the sphere of the cburch life is righteousness.

the dimensions of the outer court as well as the ark were a half square. but the new jerusalem will be a full square. this shows that what we have today is missing something, but is a testimony of that which is to come.

outside the outer court the most impressive thing is linen, righteousness, but inside the outer court the most i.pressive thing is broze: judgment. the altar was large and made of bronze. the pillars for the linen curtains around the outer court were bronze. this signifies that righteousness comes out of judgment. in the church life god is judging us in many practical ways to mkae us righteous.
