> in God's salvation two matters are crucial. the first is that God wants to be everything to his chosen people. he wants to work himself into those whom he has predestinated unto himself. second, since god wants to be everything to us, he does not want us to do anything. rather, he wants to do everything for us.
>
> as we apply these two matters to the book of exodus, we see that it was god himself who dealt with pharaoh and the egyptians. God did not ask the children of israel to fight in order to be released from Egyptian tyranny. God did everything to bring about the total defeat of the Egyptians. when moses confronted pharaoh, all he had was a rod, a dead stick. it was god who did everything for his people.

manna was a unique miracle because all the other acts of God made use of the existing natural environment, but manna was something completely new, something heavenly. for forty years gods people ate manna. this changed their constitution. it show what God wants is to change our constitution to something heavenly. by bringing them out of Egypt to the wilderness he changed their location. now by giving them manna he began to change their constitution.

> because God has a purpose in his salvation, there is no need for us to beg him to have mercy upon us and to rescue us. God is working for us, and he knows all our needs. if we know the lord and his ways, we shall not complain or murmur whenever we have a need. instead we shall say, "Praise the lord! he knows our every need. if he wants us to miss a meal, then let us have a fast with praising and rejoicing before him. even if he withholds food for several days, we shall still rejoice. he knows our need, and he will send the supply at the right time. if he chooses for us to fast instead of feast, let us still praise him. he knows what is best for us. let us accept with rejoicing whatever he gives us."

according to the natural understanding ch 16 is about the lack of faith of the children of israel. however the lords insight is that this chapter is actually about their desire to continue eating the Egyptian diet. God waited for this desire to be exposed before giving them the manna so that he could impress them with the fact that they need a change in diet to a heavenly diet.


if we lust too much for the things of the world we may experience God's glory coming to us in a negative way. he will give us what we want until we don't want it anymore. then we will learn to feed on the heavenly diet instead of indulging our flesh.
