in exodus 19 and 20 god came to fellowship with his people. he did not just give
some commandments through an angel or through moses, but directly spoke with the two million people who had assembled at the foot of the mountain of God.

the ten commandments are gods words and are called the words of God. as a commandments
they are rules for us to follow, but as words of god, they are his breath, his breathing
out into those who heard

> if we consider the ten commandments only as laws and then try to keep them, we are not proper in our approach to the law. we should not apply the the ten commandments in this way. on the contrary, we should be those who love God and seek him. in this matter we should be like Paul in philippians 3, one who was pursuing christ out of love and even running after him. out of love for the lord, we should pursue him, contact him, and abide in his presence, dwelling together with him. if we do this, day by day we shall be infused with God. then automatically, we shall walk according to gods law. we shall keep the requirements of the law, not by our own efforts, but with what has been infused into us of the Lord through our contact with him. once we have been thoroughly infused with gods substance, he himself from within us will keep his own law. we should remember that the law was given on the mountain of God, thr place where gods people could be infused with his substance. thus, we should not regard the law simply as his commandments but as the word of god and the testimony of god, which not only express him, but also infuse his substance into those who seek him in love.
