blood and cherubim

> two important symbols are related to the cover of the ark: the blood and the cherubim. the blood signifies the redemption accomplished by christ in his humanity, and the cherubim signify the glory of christs divinity. it is on this cover, the propitiatory cover with the cherubim of glory and sprinkled with the redeeming blood, that god and we can meet together. here on this cover we and god have fellowship. furthernore this is also the place where we hear a word from god and receive vision, revelation and instruction to control our daily life.

controlled by vision:

> our daily walk as christians should not be controlled by ethics, morality, devotion, piety, or religion. our daily life should not even be controlled by the scriptures alone. then by what should our daily living be controlled? it should be controlled by the vision we see when we meet with christ on the cover of the ark. provervs 29:18 says that where there is no vision the people run wild. this indicates that it is the vision which controls us. where do we receive this vision? we receive it when we meet with god on the top part of christ, the propitiatory cover. how meaningful and deep this is!

> daily we may enter into the holy of holies through the new and living way opened by the blood of jesus shed in his humanity. when we come into the holy of holies, we meet the all inclusive christ. with the redeeming blood as out standing, we can meet with god and have fellowship with him in thr midst of christs shining glory. then we shall be infused with god and receive revelation, vision, instruction, and direction. we should then walk according to this infusion and direction. this is to be a genuine christian and not a devotional christian or a pious, ethical, moral, or religious christian.
