# Joash

## Doing what was right in the eyes of Jehovah

> 2Ch 24:2 And Joash did what was right in the sight of Jehovah all the days of Jehoiada the priest.

## Restoring the house of Jehovah

> 2Ch 24:4 Now after this it came up in Joash’s heart to restore the house of Jehovah.

### Making a chest to collect tax for restoring the house

> 2Ch 24:8 And the king gave orders, and they made a chest and put it outside, by the gate of the house of Jehovah.

> 2Ch 24:11 And whenever the chest was brought to the king’s officer by the Levites, and whenever they saw that there was a large amount of money, the king’s scribe and the officer of the chief priest would come and empty the chest and take it and return it to its place. They did so daily, and they collected a large amount of money.

### Making vessels for the house

> 2Ch 24:14 And when they had finished, they brought the rest of the money before the king and Jehoiada and made with it vessels for the house of Jehovah, vessels for service and for offering up burnt offerings, and cups and vessels of gold and silver. And they offered up burnt offerings in the house of Jehovah continually all the days of Jehoiada.

## Forsaking Jehovah

> 2Ch 24:17-18 And after the death of Jehoiada the captains of Judah came and bowed down to the king; then the king listened to them. And they forsook the house of Jehovah, the God of their fathers, and they served the Asherahs and the idols; so wrath came upon Judah and Jerusalem for this guilt of theirs.

## Ignoring the prophets sent by God

> 2Ch 24:19 And He sent prophets to them to bring them back to Jehovah; and they testified against them, but they did not pay attention.

## Killing Zechariah the son of Jehoiada, who had taken care of him when he was young

> 2Ch 24:20-22 Then the Spirit of God clothed Zechariah the son of Jehoiada the priest; and he stood above the people and said to them, Thus says God, Why do you transgress the commandments of Jehovah, so that you do not prosper? For you have forsaken Jehovah, and He has forsaken you. So they conspired against him, and at the command of the king they stoned him with stones in the court of the house of Jehovah. Thus Joash the king did not remember the kindness which Jehoiada his father had shown him, and he slew his son; and when he died he said, May Jehovah see and avenge!

## Invaded by a smaller Syrian army

> 2Ch 24:24 Although the army of the Syrians had come with a small number of men, Jehovah delivered into their hand a very great army, because they had forsaken Jehovah, the God of their fathers. Thus they executed judgment on Joash.

## Murdered by two servants, the son of an Ammonite and the son of a Moabite

> 2Ch 24:26 Now those who conspired against him were Zabad the son of Shimeath the Ammonitess and Jehozabad the son of Shimrith the Moabitess.

## Not honoured in death

> 2Ch 24:25b and they buried him in the city of David. However they did not bury him among the tombs of the kings.


# Amaziah

## Killing his father's murderers but not their family according to the law

> 2Ch 25:3-4 And when the kingdom was firmly in his control, he slew his servants who had struck down his father the king; But their children he did not put to death, but acted according to what is written in the law in the book of Moses, where Jehovah commanded, saying, Fathers shall not die because of their children, nor shall children die because of their fathers; but every man shall die for his own sin.

## Listening to the prophet of God to not take Israel with him to fight against Edom

> 2Ch 25:7 But a man of God came to him, saying, O king, do not let the army of Israel go out with you, for Jehovah is not with Israel, not with any of the children of Ephraim.

## Taking the gods of Edom and worshipping them

> 2Ch 25:14 And after Amaziah came from striking the Edomites, he brought the gods of the children of Seir and set them up as his gods; and he worshipped before them and burned incense to them.

## Rejecting the counsel of the prophet

> 2Ch 25:16 And when he spoke to him, the king said to him, Have we made you a counselor to the king? Stop; why should you be struck down? So the prophet stopped and said, I know that God has determined to destroy you, for you have done this and have not listened to my counsel.

##  Foolishly challenging the king of Israel

> 2Ch 25:17 Then Amaziah the king of Judah took counsel and sent word to Joash the son of Jehoahaz, the son of Jehu, the king of Israel, saying, Come, let us confront each other.

> 2Ch 25:20 But Amaziah would not listen, for it was of God, so that He might deliver them into his hand, for they had sought after the gods of Edom.

## Defeated

> 2Ch 25:22 And Judah was defeated before Israel, and they fled, each man to his tent.

## The wall of Jerusalem torn down

> 2Ch 25:23 And Joash the king of Israel captured Amaziah the king of Judah the son of Joash the son of Jehoahaz in Beth-shemesh, and he brought him to Jerusalem and tore down the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of Ephraim to the Corner Gate, four hundred cubits.

## Conspired against and killed

> 2Ch 25:27 And from the time that Amaziah turned away from following Jehovah, they formed a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem, and he fled to Lachish; and they sent men after him to Lachish, and they killed him there.


# Uzziah

Began reigning at 16, reiged for 52 years, died at 68.

## Doing what was right in the sight of God, seeking God, seeing visions of God

> 2Ch 26:4-5 And he did what was right in the sight of Jehovah, according to all that Amaziah his father had done. And he set himself to seek after God during the days of Zechariah, who had understanding in the vision of God; and as long as he sought after Jehovah, God caused him to prosper.

## Waging war and being helped by God
2Ch 26:7
> And God helped him against the Philistines and against the Arabians who dwelt in Gur-baal and against the Meunim.

## Building towers, cisterns for cattle and vineyards and fruit farms, loving the soil

2Ch 26:10
> And he built towers in the wilderness and hewed out many cisterns, for he had much cattle, both in the lowlands and in the plain; he had farmers and vinedressers in the hills and in the fruitful fields, for he loved the soil.

## Having an army of mighty men and building war machines

2Ch 26:11
> Furthermore Uzziah had an army of soldiers that went out to war in companies according to the number of their muster done by Jeiel the scribe and Maaseiah the officer under the hand of Hananiah, one of the king’s captains.

2Ch 26:15
> And in Jerusalem he made machines, invented by skillful men, to be on the towers and at the corners for shooting with arrows and great stones. And his fame went out far abroad, for he was marvelously helped until he was strong.

## When he became strong his heart being lifted up and he tresspassing againt Jehovah by trying to burn incense of Jehovah

2Ch 26:16-18
> But when he had become strong, his heart became uplifted, to his own destruction. And he trespassed against Jehovah his God and went into the temple of Jehovah to burn incense upon the incense altar. And Azariah the priest went in after him, and with Azariah were eighty priests of Jehovah who were valiant men. And they withstood Uzziah the king and said to him, It does not belong to you, Uzziah, to burn incense to Jehovah, but to the priests, the sons of Aaron, who have been consecrated to burn incense. Go out of the sanctuary, for you have trespassed and there will be no honor for you from Jehovah God.

## Cursed by God with leprosy until his death

2Ch 26:19-21
> Then Uzziah became angry, and in his hand was a censer for burning incense. And when he became angry with the priests, leprosy broke out on his forehead before the priests in the house of Jehovah beside the incense altar. And Azariah the chief priest and all the priests looked at him, and there he was, leprous on his forehead; and they rushed him out of there, and he himself also hurried out to go out, for Jehovah had stricken him. So Uzziah the king was a leper until the day of his death; and he dwelt in a separate house as a leper, for he was cut off from the house of Jehovah. And Jotham his son was over the king’s house, judging the people of the land.

